6TH EDITION

ABOUT THE AUTHOR:
I truly believe that if you spend your time helping others get what
they need and want the relationships you build will bring you what
you need. In this spirit I’m offering the Hedge Fund Blog Book for
free. To date, more than 125,000 professionals have downloaded
and read this book.
- Richard Wilson
Richard Wilson, CEO & Founder: is the Founder and CEO of the Family Offices Group and
Billionaire Family Office. He is a prominent figure within the alternative investment industry,
working daily with hedge fund managers and family offices. Mr. Wilson also founded the Hedge
Fund Group, a professional networking association with more than 100,000 members. He lectures
frequently at hedge fund conferences and hosts several annual networking events through the
Hedge Fund Group and Family Offices Group.
His past work experiences include risk consulting and capital raising as third party marketer to
hedge funds. Richard Wilson has a Bachelors degree in Business Administration from Oregon State
University, a M.B.A. from the University of Portland, and he completed some masters level
coursework on the psychology of influence at Harvard University.
The Certified Hedge Fund Professional (CHP) designation
is a 100% online-based hedge fund training and certification
program. The CHP program is the industry standard, #1 most
popular and trusted certification program built exclusively by and
for hedge fund professionals. It is a continuing education and
professional self-improvement program. You can read more about
the CHP program at http://HedgeFundCertification.com.

The Hedge Fund Group (HFG) is a network of more than
100,000 hedge fund industry professionals from over 80
countries who actively network, partner, and refer resources and
leads to each other. Each year, the Hedge Fund Group offers
several full-day capital raising and hedge fund marketing
workshops. Many investors, including hedge funds, know us for
our capital raising resources, including the Family Offices Database. You can join the Hedge Fund
Group for free at http://HedgeFundGroup.org.
Investor Contacts: Are you trying to raise capital for
your hedge fund? We provide full contact details on more
than 3,000 different potential investors. They include
wealth management firms, single and multi-family offices, institutional investment consultants,
and fund of hedge funds. All of our directories of investor contact details are guaranteed to be
updated and accurate. You can learn more about our available packages at
http://FamilyOffices.com.
Page 1 of 193

Wilson Conferences hosts capital raising workshops, family office and investor conferences, and
alternative investment networking events around the world. These are exceptional
opportunities for private equity executives, investors, and industry professionals who want to
expand their network and build relationships while learning from industry leaders. We have
conferences and workshops in top global cities including: New York; Miami; Chicago; Los
Angeles; San Francisco; Houston; Las Vegas; and more.
To see the latest schedule of upcoming events visit: WilsonConferences.com

Capital Raising Workshops
We offer intensive, fast-moving capital raising workshops which allow you
to leave with a customized capital raising plan in hand. At these capital
raising workshops, fund managers, service providers, and business
executives enjoy a full, catered day of training focused on capital raising
and investor relations.
In these collaborative seminars, you will learn alongside your industry peers who share your
desire to more effectively target investors and market your services. Our capital raising
workshops include the following training areas: Capital Raising Core, Marketing Materials &
Copywriting, Influence & Persuasion Deep Dive, and Attracting Investors by Constructing an
Investor Funnel.
To find a full list of upcoming capital raising workshops and our latest brochure, please visit:
WilsonConferences.com/Capital-Raising-Workshops

Networking Breakfasts
Wilson Conferences hosts Networking Breakfasts in cities across the United
States and abroad for alternative investment professionals and investors.
These breakfasts are great opportunities to develop your local network and
meet potential clients, deal partners, and investors.
Be sure to reserve your seat for our Networking Breakfasts by visiting:
WilsonConferences.com/Networking

Page 2 of 193

Family Office Conferences
Wilson Conferences is hosting several family office
conferences this year that tackle the biggest issues in the
industry including co-investing and direct investments,
starting and operating a single family office, and managing
a diverse family office portfolio. Family offices are a
growing investor group and Wilson Conferences has
established itself as the leader in family office workshops
and industry gatherings.
We have the largest lineup of single family office and $1B+ family office speakers you will find at
any conference this year. If you are looking to form new family office relationships, learn how
these investors operate, or identify ways to work together with family offices on co-investments
and direct deals, you should consider our family office conferences:
Single Family Office Summit: At this May 9th Summit, you will hear from top single family
offices on best practices and strategies for investing, operating, and starting a single family
office.
Annual Family Office Chief Investment Officer Summit: This June 6th program is
dedicated to the CIOs that manage family office portfolios. Hear the views of top family office
CIOs on market trends, wealth management strategies, and capital preservation in today’s
economy.
Family Office Direct Investment, Co-Investing, & Club Deals Conference: On
September 26th, join us for a full-day program covering a big trend in the investor world: direct
investments, co-investing, & club deals.
Family Office Super Summit: Join us November 11-13 for a three day Family Office Super
Summit in Miami, which brings together top industry leaders, single and multi-family office
executives, and wealthy families.
To view the brochures and see the full speaking lineup for each of these conferences, visit:
WilsonConferences.com/Family-Office-Conferences
Your 12-Month VIP Pass
If you would like special reserved seating and open access to all of our events (a $12,479+ value) please
purchase one of the 100 available VIP One Year Conference Pass for $2,725. Visit the following page to
reserve your seat at our events: WilsonConferences.com/Reserve

Page 3 of 193

CONTENTS
PART I: HEDGEFUNDBLOGGER.COM
Chapter 1. Hedge Fund Careers
- Hedge Fund Jobs
- Double Your Hedge Fund Compensation
- SKAR Development Formula
- Hedge Fund Sales Careers
- 4 Career Tips
- Hedge Fund Networking Event Tips
- The Top 4 Best Hedge Fund Majors
- CHP & Financial Designation Choices?
- HedgeMe Book Review
- Hedge Fund Work – Email Question
- Hedge Fund Recruitment – A Listing of Hedge Fund Recruiters
- Hedge Fund Salary Levels
- Transitioning to Third Party Hedge Fund Marketing
- Hedge Fund Ethics
- Get a Job at a Hedge Fund
- Hedge Fund Designation: Why Complete a Program?
Chapter 2. Hedge Fund Capital Raising
- Marketing Tactics – 5 Unique Fund Marketing Tactics (1 of 3)
- Marketing Tactics – 5 Unique Fund Marketing Tactics (2 of 3)
- Marketing Tactics – 5 Unique Fund Marketing Tactics (3 of 3)
- Hedge Fund Marketing Hurdles
- Email Marketing Best Practices
- Do This if You Want to NOT Raise Capital
- Top 10 Hedge Fund Marketing Mistakes
- Power Words to Raise Capital With
- Institutional Investors
- Hedge Fund Marketing Materials Tips
- Combating a Bettered Image of Hedge Funds
- Hedge Fund Logo: Branding Help
- Hedge Fund Marketing Best Practices – Kick Your Own Ass
- 4 Steps to Investor Pipeline Development
- Bad News: There is No Magic Bullet
- Best Practices of Large Hedge Funds
- Presuppositions: How to Use a Presupposition
- William Edwards Deming
- Emulating Capital Raising Best Practices
- Alternative Investment Marketing & Sales
- Copywriting for Capital Raising
- Fund Marketing License Requirements
- Hedge Fund Seed Capital Marketing
Page 4 of 193

-

Hedge Funds to Financial Advisors
Capital Raising Methods and Focus
Power of Focus
Hedge Fund Media Exposure & PR
Investor Due Diligence & Emerging Managers
Hedge Fund Advertising & Marketing Ideas
Hedge Fund Marketing Plan | Tenacity Q & A
Hedge Fund Marketing in 2009
Psychology of Sales Call Reluctance Tips
Hedge Fund Seeding Capital
Guest Article: Financial Public Relations
Financial Advisor Marketing Differences Q & A
Raising Capital – Clues for Success
Third Party Marketing (3PM) Definition
Start a Hedge Fund Related Newsletter
Third Party Marketing Due Diligence
Press Release Contacts
Hedge Fund Relationship Building
Sales Phone Call Tips
9 Fund of Hedge Fund Database Tips
Motivational Sales Quotes
Using White Papers in Sales
Financial PR Tips for Hedge Funds
Marketing & Creativity
Hedge Fund Capital Introduction
Hedge fund Investor Types
Raising Capital with Tenacity
Cold Calling Tips & Advice
How to Have a Positive Attitude
Hedge Fund Outsourcing Trend
Influence Through Orienting Reflex
Attracting Hedge Fund Investors
Are Your Customers High?
Hedge Fund Third Party Marketing Careers
Institutional Hedge Fund Marketing
Targeting CEOs for Marketing & Sales
Being Detail Oriented
Investment Sales Jobs Overview

Chapter 3. Hedge Fund Startup
- Top 5 Tips for Starting a Hedge Fund
- SPEED of Implementation
- Hedge Fund Business Plan Tips
- Hedge Fund PowerPoint Improvement Tips
- 18 Lessons From Shooting Star Hedge Funds
Page 5 of 193

- Hedge Fund Startup Examples | Why Start Now?
- Raising Capital for a Fund Startup
- Starting a Hedge Fund | Tips

PART II: THE HEDGE FUND BOOK
Chapter 4. Frequently Asked Hedge Fund Questions
- Hedge Fund 101
- Hedge Fund Operations
- Hedge Fund Marketing & Sales
- Hedge Fund Careers
Chapter 5. Hedge Fund Marketing Pro
- The Bad News
- Public Relations Management
- Educational Marketing
- Forget About Contacting More Investors
- E-mail Marketing Best Practices
- Top 10 Fund Marketing Mistakes
- Copy Writing
- Case Profile
- Interview: Stephen Abrahams, Vice President of Marketing for a London-Based
Hedge Fund
- Interview: Pratik Sharma, Managing Director, Atyant Capital.
- Interview: Hendrik Klein, CEO, Davinci Invest Ltd.
- Chapter Summary
- Review Questions

PART III: THE FAMILY OFFICE BOOK
Chapter 6. Family Office Fundamentals
- The Family Office Industry
- What is a Family Office?
- The Family Office Universe
- The History of Family Offices
- State of the Family Office Industry
- Who Uses a Single or Multi-Family Office?
- Why Family Offices?
- More Money, More Problems
- Family Office Industry Conferences
- Conclusion

Page 6 of 193

PART I: HEDGEFUNDBLOGGER.COM

Page 7 of 193

HEDGE FUND CAREERS

CHAPTER 1

Page 8 of 193

Hedge Fund Jobs
Hedge fund jobs are in high demand, many MBA graduates and experienced financial
professionals now are looking for ways into the hedge fund industry. If you are looking around
at hedge fund jobs let me know. I have received a few notices from Hedge Funds looking to fill
open hedge fund jobs and I know of a few recruiters that you might want to be speaking with.
I often get email questions about how to prepare a resume for a hedge fund job interview.
What is the perfect hedge fund resume for hedge fund jobs? Unfortunately, there isn't one.
While not normally the case, some hedge fund professionals never graduate from high school
but make over $1m/year in their job trading or selling for a hedge fund. That being said, some
of the factors below are items that can help land you hedge fund jobs:
* Quantitative experience and abilities
* Certified Hedge Fund Professional (CHP), or other finance designations (for ideas see our
FinanceTraining.com website)
* An Education - Ivy league, MBA, Quant-focused PhD
* Signs of loyalty, passion, and humility
* Something extra, like PR expertise, asset gathering ability, or information advantage
* High quality names from your last few hedge fund jobs - large wirehouse experience
* Capital raising skills: how much money did you personally bring in to the firm or make for
the firm?
* A stomach for a high commission/bonus structure
One highly successful hedge fund manager said that they don't have any hard and fast
experience requirements while filling their open hedge fund jobs. They simply look for people
who are hungry, humble, and smart.

Page 9 of 193

Double Your Hedge Fund Compensation
We get lots of emails from hedge fund professionals (2k/week) who are looking to boost their
career, their compensation and their overall progress in reaching their dream hedge fund job.
Below are some quick, practical ideas that take hard work but are proven to greatly increase
your chances of doubling your income in the industry regardless of where you are currently at:
1. Map out where you want to go in the next 1, 3, 5 and 7 years on paper in a career or
business plan. Dream big and work backwards from there.
2. Switch jobs. If your current employer is not giving you opportunities or avenues to grow,
get out and move on to a bigger opportunity. If this is not an option, create "WOW"
projects in your job. If you don't know what this means, read Tom Peters books for
motivation and instructions on this.
3. Stop thinking about just putting in the time and instead start positioning your own
unique value and contribution.
4. Be pro-active in becoming friends with those who are either hubs for industry contacts or
are the direct professionals who you want to work for in 3-5 years. Friends hire friends.
5. Invest in yourself. Complete training or certification programs. Seek out a mentor or hire
a coach.
6. Create 5 drafts of your resume before showing it to anyone. If possible, create a pitch
book on yourself and your career as to why someone who hire you. Provide an estimated
ROI, example trades, any work samples that you have permission to share, etc.
7. Read at least 30 minutes of training materials or niche books that directly connect with
the skills needed to perform very well at your dream position.
8. Join toastmasters and get comfortable and good at speaking at events, seminars, and
conferences. This will position you as an authority and forces you to master some niche
topic
9. Work hard. I heard a great quote somewhere: “In life there are two groups: those who
take credit, and those who do hard work.” Be in the group that does the hard work; there
is far less competition.
I hope these tips help! These are things I have learned in trying to grow my career and
coaching members of the Certified Hedge Fund Professional (CHP) Program. Each
participant of the CHP Designation receives access to our career coaching, resume feedback,
resume template, and over 70 educational videos.

Page 10 of 193

SKAR Development Formula
There is a formula that I have used over the past 7 years to help me build my resume and
career, and now my own small business. It called the SKAR Formula. This is not a way to
shortcut the hard work it takes to be successful, but rather a map showing where to invest
your energy to increase your return on your “investment”.
SKAR Development Formula
Specialized Knowledge + Authority positioning + tangible Results = huge growth
opportunities and faster development in your career or business.
Definitions
Specialized Knowledge = Specific knowledge that is practical, functional and very niche
specific to the area in you work or the skill or ability you rely on to perform well. Specialized
knowledge exists whether you are an airplane pilot, hedge fund analyst, or third party
marketer.
The difference between having specialized knowledge or not could mean the difference
between spending 18 months to complete a task or project or being able to development
strong client relationships and complete the same task in just 3 months. It lets you identify
more opportunities, move more quickly on them, and execute with efficiency when once
multiplied over several years puts you in a different league of competition. Some ideas on
how you can further develop your specialized knowledge include:
1. Read two books each month for the next two years on the area of specialized knowledge that
is going to benefit your business or career most.
2. Subscribe to 3 of the best newsletters from blogs or experts in your industry that are NOT
re-hashed press releases and garbage news. You learn close to nothing from reading the news
- read insights, analyses and white papers in these newsletters instead. There are at least 2-3
valuable free newsletters in each industry.
3. Complete a niche training and certification program specific to your area of specialized
knowledge. Having a third party verify that you have obtained a certain level of specialized
knowledge is ALWAYS going to be more credible than, I like to read books and email
newsletters, here is what I have read lately. Seek out an online certification program and start
one in 6 months, this will force you to read and learn more in your niche.
4. Write one article a week on your thoughts, best practices, and lessons learned in your niche
area of practice. Write anonymously by creating a free blog at Blogger.com and start
synthesizing what you are learning and combining other ideas to create your own original
concepts (such as this blog post).
Authority Positioning = Creating structures around your firm or self so that your
knowledge and abilities are communicated in a way that positions you as an authority in your
niche area. Ideally this area lines up 1-to-1 with your area of specialized knowledge and it can
Page 11 of 193

be the result of gathering this knowledge. Two professionals can hold the same knowledge
though, while one write 5 books and completes over 50 press interviews a year the other may
be an arm chair critic with a small group of 5-7 consulting clients. The more well-positioned
professional will reap rewards from new opportunities coming towards him instead of the
other way around. I was a competitive swimmer earlier in my life and the best book I read on
swimming was called "Swimming Downhill" it was a way to swim so that your body is tilted
forward and you literally cut continually downwards into the water. If you get Authority
Positioning right it will be like you are swimming downhill. Jeffrey Gitomer is a great study of
authority positioning, he started writing 8 pages a day when he was 46 years old, now in his
fifties he has over 10 bestselling books, and charges more than Colin Powell for speeches - the
real important detail though is he NEVER cold calls anyone and never scrambles for new
business. His phone literally rings off the hook with new opportunities, clients, and joint
venture partnerships due to his positioning; he is swimming down a steep hill.
1. Publish your own newsletter or blog - even if you only publish something once every 2
weeks, having it and building it over time is what is important.
2. Interview one professional each month for your own blog or newsletter. Be sure to
inform them that you cannot compensate them, but as your website becomes more
popular there is an opportunity for some exposure, and they can have a copy of the
recorded phone call transcript, Mp3 file, or document that you type up.
Interviewing experts is a shortcut to gaining specialized knowledge and authority
positioning quick. Simply telling others that you have interviewed 20 of the top experts
in the industry and that, overall you found A & B and most surprisingly C, is very
powerful.
The stronger your work here in building specialized knowledge, the more willing these
experts will be to connecting with you. Over time, your questions will also evolve into
more pointed and refined ones. Have you ever done an interview with a journalist who
has never worked in your field? They’re not always fun or fulfilling to answer the basics
that can be looked up on Google in 3 seconds.
3. Take what you have written in your own newsletter or blog and self-publish a book,
with 60-80 pages of single spaced text anyone can do this for $15 at Lulu.com. Very
simple, no more excuses that you do not have a book deal. I got my second big
investment marketing contract partially because I had a self-published book in hand
and someone gave me a chance based on my dedication to the niche. The book
positions you as an authority.
4. Create a 1 page PDF list of all of your past clients. This can show depth, experience, and
respect that others have given you by paying for your services and time in the past.
5. Speak at conferences. It is relatively easy to land speaking spots at conference,
networking events and seminars. Lots of professionals are looking for others with
unique ideas and lessons to share, and again teaching what specialized knowledge you
have gained helps you connect and synthesize these ideas. If you are speaking to a
crowd you are in an authority position and when you mention your speaking it adds
credibility because others have stopped their business days and invested their valuable
time to listen to what you had to say.
Page 12 of 193

Tangible Results: The importance of showing real tangible results cannot be over-stated.
Finding ways to do this in service businesses, the fund management industry, or in certain
areas of extreme confidentiality is challenging. Some types of tangible results that can be
shared include:






An actual printed out version of part of the service or end result of the product or
service
Video or text (not as good) testimonials from past and current clients, the more
specific to the immediate need or concern of your potential client or employer the
better...the more numerous the testimonials the better.
The first 15-20% of the product or your service given away for free on a trial basis. $1
first month trial, 4 weeks of free work or time so we can prove our worth to you, etc.
Diverse and numerous case studies of past clients or employers, this proves that you
work with firms with various needs and have found solutions for them, it allows the
reader of these case studies to imagine you solving their problem
A little tip, a quick take-away or lesson in your sales letter or website that provides the
potential client with immediate benefit. This proves that you have the goods, are an
authority and do have their best interests in mind.

Another related topic is that underneath all three of these items, they have the right habits.
Habits have been shown to form 96% of what we do every single day. We tend to eat the same
things, walk the same way, watch the same shows, and read the same types of books. As the
quote goes, "First, form your habits. Then, your habits form you."
What business habits are you forming? What elements of the SKAR formula are you using
each week? When you read this type of advice are you thinking "I already know this stuff" or
"how good am I at that, and where could I improve?"

Page 13 of 193

Hedge Fund Sales Careers
Below is a short guest post by Mark Goormastic of Goormastic Executive Search. This is
straight advice from someone who works daily with placing hedge fund professionals in the
industry. The only thing I would personally add to this post is that you must have multiple
forms of proof that you have raised capital before in the form of current investor contacts,
referrals, or letters of recommendation.
I get a lot of inquiries from sales professionals. The question is usually "I would like to get a
salaried Director of Marketing position at a small hedge fund. Can you help?"
My answer is: maybe. My clients tend to be small hedge funds with investor assets under
$100M. When they are willing to pay a salary, they expect results quickly - in six to nine
months at the very most.
To bring in say $5M, in this time frame, your book and career history should look like this,
from the perspective of a small hedge fund that might consider hiring you:
- You've successfully raised money for another small (<$100M) hedge fund.
- We'll define "successful" to mean that you brought in a meaningful volume of
allocations, let's say $10M, in the first eighteen months. Not commitments. Actual
checks in the bank.
- The hedge fund you successfully raised capital for employed a strategy such that the
investors who allocated to that fund would logically have an interest in the fund that is
considering you.
If those conditions are true, then you might be a great fit for a small hedge fund looking for a
Director of Marketing.

Page 14 of 193

4 Career Tips
If someone wanted to start a hedge fund career, what are 4 pieces of advice you would give
them?
1. As soon as you are committed to the hedge fund industry enroll and begin studying for
the Certified Hedge Fund Professional (CHP), and one or two other finance designations
programs. If you need ideas on other areas to specialize in related to hedge funds please
see our www.FinanceTraining.com website.
2. Figure out if your passion is in trading, analytics or marketing & sales. Choosing your
specialty area early will help you more quickly develop the experience and skill sets
needed to do well in that type of position.
3. Never do anything unethical. If you are sharp and passionate, you will never have a have
need to cut corners. Avoid people that do at all costs.
4. Do your own compliance and due diligence research. Look up your potential or current
boss in the FINRA or SEC records to see if they have marks against them. Meet with a
compliance lawyer yourself to make sure your activities are all legal with securities laws.
Do your own homework because many times nobody is going to do it for you.

Page 15 of 193

Hedge Fund Networking Event Tips
If you're looking to enter the hedge fund industry either working directly for a firm or as a
service provider to one, networking events and conferences are a great way to get your foot in
the door. Many professionals fail to take advantage of these opportunities, even those who
attend. Here are 5 tips that should prepare you for attending a networking event or
conference:
1. Don't Be Shy: It's a good start to attend a hedge fund event but you do not gain anything if
you do not talk to other attendees, speakers, and sponsors. The event is only valuable if you
make it valuable, so network and socialize with those around you.
2. Don't Scare People Off: Another mistake is to be too forward when approaching
managers or service providers, especially those looking to land a job in the hedge fund
industry. Instead of sharing insights and thoughts on the industry, many young professionals
will focus entirely on their own needs (a job) and ignore those managers or executives that are
not currently hiring. This is the wrong mentality.
Assuming you have been following the industry and paid good attention to the speaker, you
will have a good starting point for initiating a conversation. Ask questions when appropriate
and listen when the other person is speaking. If you are looking for a job, don't start a
conversation with that problem. Those who work in the industry are not paying to hear
someone complain about not working in private equity. But you should mention it if the
timing is appropriate.
3. Get Your Name Out There: If you cannot find a hiring firm or no firms are interested in
your product or service, don't despair; get your name out there. It may just be an inconvenient
moment or the person you are talking with is not the right person at the firm. For example, if
you are marketing your auditing service to a principle in charge of evaluating deals, he may
not be interested. Give him your business card regardless. In a quarter the firm may be
looking for a new auditor and they may still have your card. Even if you do not directly land a
client through this method, it boosts your firm and your own name recognition. If you're
looking for a job (from analyst to executives) give your card out. When the firm is eventually
hiring they will probably have your name on file.
4. Prepare an Elevator Pitch: It may not sound great, but you are a product that needs to
be sold. You need to have a great elevator pitch that comes out effortlessly. Whether you are
looking to network, marketing to investors, or job seeking, a solid elevator pitch is necessary.
Be concise and include only essential information. To learn more about crafting a great
elevator pitch see these articles: Developing an Elevator Pitch and Elevator Pitch Essentials
(also the title of a helpful book on the subject).
5. Look and Act like a Professional: Even though you are not at work when you're
attending an event or conference, act like you are. You are meeting potential clients and
partners, so you essentially are working. Wear a suit and if it's hot, as many crowded events
are, at least make the initial effort and take off your coat once you sit down. Look your best
(haircut, shave, and a suit) or no one will take you seriously. It's better to be overdressed than
underdressed. Remember your manners, especially if it is catered event. Be sure to use
language that you would be comfortable using in the office.
Page 16 of 193

The Top 4 Best Hedge Fund Majors
What is the best major to complete in school to work in the hedge fund industry?
1) Economics: Understanding how the economy works and what triggers economic events
and valuation fluctuations is key to understanding hedge fund investment strategies.
Studying economics also provides the benefit of being able to possibly complete an MBA in
the future in Finance or Marketing without repeating the same classes over again.
2) Finance: Similar to economics understanding finance well and being able to analyze the
financial statements, annual reports, and stock market is key to the majority of hedge fund
investment strategies. If you are looking to be an analyst or portfolio manager, understanding
both finance and economics is important.
3) Marketing: There is a huge need for more hard working, educated, and productive capital
raisers in the hedge fund industry. I have never met anyone skilled at marketing in the hedge
fund industry without far more opportunities than they could ever commit to. Those with just
a few years of industry experience and a marketing degree could work for a hedge fund
startup, third party marketing firm, or capital introduction team at a prime brokerage shop.
4) Programming: Financial models at both small and large hedge funds are built with
relatively simple programming languages or macros, and the ability to edit these or build
them from scratch is valuable skill to have. If you combine real industry experience and some
hedge fund industry training, this degree could help position yourself as an asset to many
managers.

Page 17 of 193

CHP & Financial Designation Choices?
Below is a question we received about the CHP Designation.
Question: How does the CHP designation compare with other financial designation
choices?
Answer:
 The CHP Designation costs $975 for both Level 1 and Level 2 when tuition is paid
for both levels at once. We also have payment plans available.


The CHP Designation can be completed in just a few months. With examinations
held monthly, both levels can be completed very quickly.



We are unique in that we are the #1 globally recognized hedge fund certification
program built for and by hedge fund professionals.



Our program costs 50% less than most competing designations while providing
more coaching and video-based training modules than anyone else in the space.

Page 18 of 193

Hedge Me: The Insider's Guide--U.S. Hedge
Fund Careers – Book Review
I found Hedge Me to be a great guide to beginning a career in the hedge fund industry. Some
have bought Hedge Me simply for the comprehensive list of hedge fund employers and
recruiters that is included in the book. The hedge fund industry is a very competitive place to
work and by reading this guide, you can increase your chances of getting a job. You may also
save yourself by avoiding the mistake of working in the wrong type of hedge fund position.
This book provides insights into the day-to-day activities of hedge fund traders, analysts, and
sales professionals. This shows you what their schedules and responsibilities look like, helping
to paint a clearer picture that is sometimes hard to piece together through reading articles
online and conducting informational interviews.
Hedge Me is also great for statistical references on what you can expect to get paid and how
large the industry is. If nothing else you will have hard numbers to go off of and if you can
negotiate $35 more pay, that alone has paid for the price of this book.

Page 19 of 193

Hedge Fund Work - Email Question
I just got this hedge fund work related email from a hedge fund recruiter who is a member of
the Hedge Fund Group (HFG) and based in Hong Kong.
"Hi Richard - Been enjoying all of your informative articles on hedge funds and through those
I can see your passion and desire to make a difference. I am a recruiter based in Hong Kong
and many investment bankers and finance professionals are seeking hedge fund jobs here.
With so many hedge fund managers out there in the industry how do you qualify which type of
hedge fund would be good to work for?"
"The easy answer is: it depends. It depends on what your short and long-term career goals are
in the hedge fund industry. The better short answer is that it would probably be most
beneficial to work with a hedge fund with more than $100M in assets under management,
ideally with offices in London and/or the United States. Most of the hedge fund asset raising
activity is going on in the EU and America so joining a hedge fund large enough to
compensate you well for your efforts while also growing quickly in terms of assets might be
your best bet.
Dozens of additional hedge funds will most likely be opening offices in Hong Kong over the
next 3-5 years. The trick will likely include the development of relationships with those firms
while they are planning who to hire locally."

Page 20 of 193

Hedge Fund Recruitment - A Listing of Hedge
Fund Recruiters
I get emails each week from hedge fund professionals looking for new employment
opportunities, and many of these are interested in contacting hedge fund recruiters who are
focused on hedge funds. Below are my efforts toward compiling a list of top hedge fund
recruiters that are dedicated to working with hedge fund professionals and alternative
investment clients in general. If you need a hedge fund recruiter please choose one from the
list below.
Top Hedge Fund Industry Recruiters:
Marc Goormastic (President of Goormastic Executive Search, United States) - I recruit
Sales, Business Development, & Capital Raising (including TPM) talent for private money
firms, private equity firms, mutual funds, & hedge funds. Retainer-basis with one year
guarantee. SMALL FIRM FRIENDLY: I will accept my fee in up to twelve monthly
installments to ease cash flow impact. Excellent industry client references available upon
request. Contact Details - marcus@goormastic.com Also see http://www.goormastic.com/
Anthony Solazzo, of Masonboro Partners is focused in on recruiting in the financial services
space world-wide (investment banking/private equity, and hedge fund opportunities). You
can email him at: anthony@masonboropartners.com or at 240.476.9785
Howard Ross is a leading hedge fund recruiter with BOC Staffing Solutions. BOC is a
specialty provider of permanent and consulting staffing to all levels of positions in Middle and
Back Office Operations and Front-Office Trade lifecycle support. BOC brings a strength of
database and staffing expertise gained over 15+years in providing the talent sought, from the
hourly worker providing non-exempt support to senior executives managing
departments/divisions.
Our candidates have expertise in such business disciplines such as: CSR, Bookrunners and
Sales/Trader Assistants, Confirmations/Settlements/Reconciliation specialists,
Market/Credit/Operations/VaR Risk Professionals, Product Controllers, Accounting Tax and
Compliance experts, Business Analysts, etc. Howard can be contacted at 212-490-2233 or
HRoss@BOCStaffing.com
Ken Murray - Mercury Partners is a leading Hedge Fund Executive Search firm based in
NYC. Since 2000 we have executed hundreds on searches for Analysts, Portfolio Mangers, and
Traders in Long/Short, Event Driven Equities, Distressed/High Yield, and Quantiative
Strategies for blue-chip and boutique hedge funds in the United States and London. We also
provide extensive marketplace statistics for and compensation data as well as hiring trends
and growth areas for our clients to better understand the marketplace. Ken can be contacted
at 212.687.3982 or kenmurray@mercurypartner.com
Sameer Vishwanathan, Partner, Mark Lewis, Inc., Chicago -- we recruit exclusively for
hedge funds and proprietary trading firms across the US; a fair majority of our clients utilize
high-frequency, black box, algorithmic trading strategies. We focus on quantitative and
technology placements of both experienced professionals and recent grads for roles in the
front-office and the middle-office; if you are interested in working as a Quantitative
Page 21 of 193

Programmer, Quantitative Analyst, Trader, Portfolio Manager or a similar role, please email a
copy of your resume to sameer@marklewisinc.com or call us at 646.257.2568 . Please note
that we will never share your resume or any other information unless we have your explicit
permission. You can also visit us online at http://www.marklewisinc.com/.

Page 22 of 193

Why Work at a Hedge Fund?
While recent market problems mean many in the financial sector will be out of work or taking
home smaller bonuses, there’s still wealth waiting for those in hedge funds. That wealth
attracts many entrepreneurs, workers, and students to hedge fund employment. So, why work
for a hedge fund?
- Working at a hedge fund requires varied skills and abilities. Whether involved in designing a
fund, it strategies or its sales, hedge fund work can be challenging and invigorating. Not only
will you manage or oversee a portfolio, you’ll have to make sure you’re serving the interests of
you clients while ensuring your corporate practices are tight, legal and profitable.
- Hedge funds can cater to your type of experience. Funds require people skilled in
accounting, investment banking, economic analysis and business. There’s room for everyone.
- Unique corporate cultures. The smallest funds may be run by one or two busy traders; the
largest by hundreds. Seek the one that’s best for you.
- A base salary will start around six figures.
- And the best is yet to come: the real money’s in the bonus, which can reach another six
figures.
The downside? If your fund doesn’t earn, you’ll miss out on a large part of your wages. But
that incentive is probably the ideal thing for someone skilled in business, dedicated to
performance and eagerly seeking profit.

Page 23 of 193

Hedge Fund Salary Levels
There is much talk about astronomical hedge fund salary levels and cases every year where
hedge fund managers realize $1B+ in total earnings, but just how well are most hedge fund
professionals compensated? I just found some recent hedge fund salary details online by
Alpha Magazine. Here are the figures:

Single Manager Hedge
Fund CEO Salary Figures

Junior Analyst Hedge
Fund Salary Figures

Senior Trader Hedge
Fund Salary Figures

Data source: Alpha Magazine

Page 24 of 193

Transitioning to Third Party Hedge Fund
Marketing
Over the weekend I got an email from a hedge fund professional working for a very well
known bank in London. He was looking for advice on getting into third party marketing or
hedge fund sales. He specifically asked if I knew of any great books on third party marketing
or hedge fund sales and wanted details on typical fee structures/compensation, etc. My
response is pasted below as I thought it might answer some other people's questions while
looking for information on marketing hedge funds.
Thanks for the email. There are no great books on third party marketing that I am aware of,
everyone is pretty close vested in the industry. I haven't found a great book on investment
sales either, but I know there are a few of those if you look around on Amazon. If you are
looking for great books just on sales, I really like Jeffrey Gitomer's 3 books: The Sales Bible,
The Little Red Book of Sales Answers, and Yes! Attitude. Those books have changed my
career.
Hedge fund marketing & sales fee structures vary depending on the type, reputation, and
abilities of the third party marketing firm (3PM firm). Some retain only 2-3 clients at a time
and charge retainers for this focus of their attention while others might work with 10
money managers (clients) at once and only get paid on commissions. Usually commissions
are 20% of both the base fee and performance fee when working with hedge funds.
If you work for a hedge fund you will be restricted to their strategy(s) so if their
performance dips or the strategy goes out of favor you might not raise any money and it
wouldn't be your fault. If you work for a 3PM firm you would probably get to market 2-3
different money managers in some capacity across diverse distribution channels such as
endowments & foundations, broker dealers, and direct to high net worth individuals. If a
strategy goes out of favor you just find a new money manager to market as a firm, you avoid
that downside of being a hedge fund sales professional. Common compensation for internal
hedge fund sales people is 80k-200k with some making 400-800k/year and maybe 3-10
commissions that might trail off over time. Common compensation for a 3PM as I
mentioned above is a retainer of 60k-150k (if they get one) and 20% of fees.
I'm not even 30 years old yet so I'm going the third party marketing route because I want to
be able to have knowledge of the DNA and powerful relationships in every major
distribution channel. I want figure out where the real money and momentum lies. I want to
be able to shift my focus to that point. I believe it is harder to get a 3PM job because most
want you to have a book of business or solid relationships, but it can be done. To land my
first third party marketing position, I worked for free for 3 weeks to prove myself and took a
big cut in pay coming in the door, but now I'm in my dream job getting experience that I
believe will continue to be more valuable each year.

Page 25 of 193

Hedge Fund Ethics
In the hedge fund industry, you have one name and one reputation. If you ruin that, you could
have influential people in the industry refusing to do business with you for 15-20 years after
their initial opinion is formed. In such a competitive close vested industry where large profits
can be made the temptation to cut corners or look past fiduciary duties is sometimes too
much.
The FBI recently had agents posing as a Florida-based hedge fund manager to nab 10
individuals in 5 kickback schemes connected to securities sales. The SEC charged 10
individuals, and the U.S. Attorney’s office charged six, with criminal offenses.
In each case the posing hedge fund manager told the targets that their actions must be kept
secret because it violated his fiduciary duties, making it explicitly known that what was going
on was illegal and un-ethical. “This case illustrates the Commission’s ability to work together
with criminal authorities in creative ways to uncover fraudulent schemes and to protect our
markets,” said Linda Chatman Thomas, the head of the SEC’s enforcement division.
Bottom Line: If you are smart enough and hard working enough to be successful, you don't
need to ever cut corners and blatantly break securities laws. Innovation and relationships are
the competitive advantage that should make you extremely profitable, not cheating the
system.

Page 26 of 193

Get a Job at a Hedge Fund
I recently wrote a hedge fund career related article for Investopedia.com on how to get a job at
a hedge fund. The steps I suggest in this article include:
1. Make sure you really want to get a hedge fund job
2. Become a student of the hedge fund industry
3. Use the 3 circles strategy for your career decision making progress
4. Identify several mentors to help you secure a hedge fund job
5. Complete multiple hedge fund internships
6. Develop your unique value proposition
7. Hedge fund job tips
8. Land the unadvertised hedge fund job
9. Consider hedge fund service provider jobs
10. Apply to hedge fund jobs

Page 27 of 193

Hedge Fund Designation: Why Complete A
Program?
What is a Designation? A designation or certification program is a educational course on a
niche professional skill or industry in which a third party confirms or verifies knowledge
and/or experience of candidates looking to improve their career or business in the field.
Many hedge fund professionals complete the CHP hedge fund designation program because it
provides an online-based learning system to master the fundamentals of how hedge funds
operate and then allows you to specialize in one of three areas of work in the hedge fund
industry: Hedge Fund Marketing & Sales, Portfolio Analytics, or Hedge Fund Due Diligence.

Page 28 of 193

HEDGE FUND CAPITAL RAISING

CHAPTER 2

Page 29 of 193

Marketing Tactics
5 Unique Fund Marketing Tactics (1 of 3)
This is part 1 of a 3 part series on unique hedge fund marketing tactics that managers should
investigate further while attempting to raise capital for their funds. Before taking any of these
actions please consult with your compliance and legal counsel for confirmation that you are
able to use these methods to market your specific fund.
Public Relations Management - Public relations has to be one of the most ignored
marketing tools of hedge fund managers today. I have worked with over three dozen hedge
funds on their marketing plans and capital raising efforts. So far, the most intense public
relations effort I have seen set forth was a single press release over a four year period. This is
not to say that any hedge fund that is not publishing at least 4 press releases a year is doing
something wrong. Many could benefit by simply making themselves more available to the
press.
The media is hungry for real-time opinions of hedge fund managers, traders, and marketers.
They need comments on current market conditions, trends in hiring and firing of traders and
portfolio managers and what prospects lay ahead for the industry as a whole.
Many hedge fund managers shy away from contributing to stories in the press. I would
strongly encourage you to speak with your legal counsel and see if they would approve of your
discussions with the media if you stick to industry trends, general market trends and longterm movements you are seeing in the industry.
Top 4 Tips for Taking Advantage of Public Relations for your Hedge Fund:
1. Speak to your legal counsel to check on exactly what you can say or not say to the press.
2. Develop a list of 10-15 targeted publications that you would like to appear in. Identify
the editor of financial columns in that publication or news source and introduce
yourself to them as a resource.
3. Speak at public events, conferences, networking events and other places in the industry
where you will be heard not only by others in the industry but probably a few members
of the press as well.
4. Consider writing a book on your insights and experience. Many professionals in the
hedge fund industry are often interviewed on TV after they have published a book on a
specific topic in the hedge fund industry, such as regulation or quantitative trading.
Yes, writing a book sounds extreme to many who are already working 50 hours a week.
That is precisely why it would be so effective to consider doing so. Those who do have
the time and skills to write well are often not the same as those who have the
experience and insight.

Page 30 of 193

Marketing Tactics
5 Unique Hedge Fund Marketing Tactics (2 of 3)
This is part 2 of 3 in a series on unique hedge fund marketing tactics that managers should
investigate further while working to raise capital for their funds. Before taking any of these
actions please consult with your compliance and legal counsel for confirmation that you are
able to use these methods to market your specific fund.
Educational Marketing - One of the most effective ways you can market your hedge fund is
by being 4x more educational and easy to understand than your competition. I wrote here in
my blog last year that a recent survey showed that over 78% of institutional investors will not
invest in something that they cannot understand, I would imagine that for HNW investors this
figure is even higher.
While some managers purposely position their fund to appear "black box" and top secret you
could market your fund as being more open, transparent and simple in how you approach
explaining your investment process. This does not meant that you ignore advanced methods
or models of trading and managing portfolios, but it would require more of a 10,000 foot view
and explanation of your investment process instead of the 500 foot views that I often see.
The trick in doing this right is balancing providing enough detail and real meat that an
institutional investor or consultant will gain some granularity while you don't completely
overwhelming HNW investors or wealth managers who may be less versed in common hedge
fund strategies of portfolio management techniques.
Here is a list of 4 additional ways you may market your hedge fund in a more educational or
simple way:
1. PowerPoint - Dedicate 20% of your PowerPoint presentation to educational content.
Asterisk all industry terms and note that definitions are provided in the back of the
presentation. Explain your investment process so that anyone could understand, at
least on a high level how your fund operates. Start with your team, high level
investment process and how that all comes together before digging into trading
examples or risk management tools.
2. Folder - Many managers use a folder of marketing materials while meeting with clients.
This often includes a one pager, PowerPoint presentation, and a recent quarterly
market outlook newsletter written by the PM. It is wise to always include some
additional reading in the folder as well. Provide 2-3 white papers written by experts
outside of your firm that speak to the trends related to the assets your firm invests in or
strategy your firm employs.
3. Speaking & Writing - This also came up in the last post in this series on public relations
but I would highly recommend writing and speaking every week to help build a
presence, brand and network in the industry. Speaking at wealth management
conferences and HNW related events can be highly effective.
4. Wealth Management & Financial Planners - One of the most ignored sources of capital
Page 31 of 193

for hedge fund managers are small to medium sized wealth management firms and
financial planning groups that serve HNW professionals from time to time but don't
manage $1B+ in total assets. Many of these groups work as part of a broker-dealer
network or RIA and they may only meet in person with 5-10 hedge funds in any on
year vs. larger institutions that may meet with several each week. These relationships
take a long time to build into effective sources of capital but I have found that if you
approach them in a more educational fashion than your institutional leads they can
pay off as very sticky long-term accounts.

Page 32 of 193

5 Unique Hedge Fund Marketing Tactics (3 of 3)
This is part 3 of 3 in a series on unique hedge fund marketing tactics that managers should
investigate further while working to raise capital for their funds. Before taking any of these
actions please consult with your compliance and legal counsel for confirmation that you are
able to use these methods to market your specific fund.
Forget about contacting more investors. Yes, it may seem illogical to forget about contacting
new investors while attempting to raise capital, but this may be what you need to do to meet
your business goals. Many of the hedge funds I speak to want to be connected with investors,
they want lists of family offices, seed capital providers or HNW wealth management firms.
While accessing more investor contact details may be a useful resource and improve your
marketing efforts it is often not the real constraint that is holding your business back.
No business is perfect, every business has some constraint that if removed would help the
business more than anything else. Sometimes this constraint is portfolio management
expertise, sometimes it is marketing materials, and many times it is lack of institutionalized
processes and tools. Very seldom do I meet with hedge funds that if provided with a long list
of 1,000 investors would explode in assets under management.
Most hedge funds do not take the time to write down all of their current business problems
or symptoms and ask the “why” questions needed to identify the root constraint in their
business model. A good tool that I have seen used by half a dozen management consulting
gurus is the "4 Why Process." If you ask why something is happening 4 times you will get to
the root cause of the problem.
 Initial Problem/Symptom: Why don't we manage $100M in assets yet? Why?
 Potential Answer: We are not raising capital from wealth management firms as you
had hoped. Why?
 Potential Answer: Our marketing materials have not been brought up to part with
the competitions, they are light and our investment process is poorly described.
Why?
 Potential Answer: We know that you should be paying a consultant or in-house
marketer to help with both marketing materials and generating relationships but
you have not hired one. Why?
 Potential Answer: We do not have the profits available to hire a full time marketer
but we get around to creating a system to share equity, grow relationships with third
party marketers or build a marketing related advisory board.
The point of this exercise is to identify what the bottleneck is that is slowing down your
growth. A hedge fund can be seen a 20 link chain, you must have all 20 strong links in place
to keep the business growing long-term. If 19 links can carry the weight of a $300M fund but
one link is only up to par for a $10M fund than you will limit your growth and you may never
or only very slowly grow into a $300M fund. The biggest return for your investment of time
and money will be to focus on that one broken or sub-par link in your operations, marketing,
trading or internal business processes, anything else would be a relative waste of money or
energy.
Page 33 of 193

This is a unique marketing technique because it is a reminder that the smartest thing you
could do for your marketing and sales campaign may have nothing to do with picking up a
phone or buying a database of investors. Before spending more money or valuable time try to
consider the following 2 tips for improving your ability to attract investors:
Use the "4 Why Tool" to drill down deeper into the top 5 problems that you see your fund
facing right now. Often times 3-5 problems will often be symptoms of a single root cause that
can be directly addressed.
Ask others including your advisory board, current investors, potential investors and coworkers what is holding your fund back. Do not settle with two word surface answers and try
to identify what 3-5 action steps your fund could take this quarter to improve how you are
positioned and address the #1 limiting factor in your business.

Page 34 of 193

Hedge Fund Marketing Hurdles
We recently held a 1/2 day hedge fund marketing training seminar in New York City as part of
our Hedge Fund Marketing Mechanics series. Here we covered in-depth hedge fund
marketing tactics, strategies, competitive edges, tools, and innovative marketing materials.
During the event I saw a common trend of what seemed to be tripping up hedge fund
managers who were trying to raise capital. Most of their challenges revolved around these two
marketing hurdles:


Not enough time, staff, or interest from third party marketers who have an interest in
marketing their type or hedge fund with their level of current AUM



Not enough checklists, training, internal processes, and best practices developed to
make sure the fund marketing process is consistent and will eventually churn out new
investor and sources of capital

Page 35 of 193

Email Marketing Best Practices
I worked as a risk consultant and capital raiser for 7 years before starting my own firm.
During the last few years of those positions, I was responsible for raising most assets on an
email and phone-based system and I have slowly picked up some tips for capital raising since
then. I started my own firm 2 years ago and since then I have sent and received over 800,000
emails. Our business is so email-based that we have been forced to study best practices in this
space to improve our efficiency at connecting with potential clients.
Most CEO's don't invest their time or put much importance on managing email
communications. One of my favorite quotes by Brian Tracy is that, “If you want what to have
others don't, you have to do what others don't.” If you invest your time in increasing your
effectiveness at email marketing you will have an edge over others.
Tonight, I'm speaking on email marketing for capital raising. I will be sharing best practices
in reaching out to potential and current investors through writing copy and using email
marketing best practices. While 99% of those reading this will not be able to attend the event
we will be posting a recorded video of this discussion to Hedge Fund Premium and sharing
some of the tips below in this post:
Email Marketing Best Practices
1. Understanding the Importance of Copy: What is the difference between a $1 and
a $100 bill? The message on the paper. The message in your email, the message in
your investor letters, and the message in everything you write will determine the
difference between it being worth $1,000 and $100,000. I think that sales copywriting
is consistently under-valued and overlooked by business and investment professionals
of all types. One of my best tips for email marketing would be to simply not overlook
the power of a carefully constructed email marketing campaign or well written piece of
communication.
2. Use the professional’s first name in the email subject line. The Marketing
Sherpa 2008 study showed this increased open rates by 30%, using both the first
and last name increased open rates by 22%.
3. Focus on the Headline: The most important part of any piece of copy is the
headline. Often times over email the headline of the email is a slight variation of the
subject line, perhaps the subject line minus the person's first name. Focus on fitting a
benefit and then the chain reaction of that benefit into the headline if possible.
"Double Your Capital Raising Resources to Cultivate More Investors Each Day" We
have found that putting the benefit after your firm name is most effective. Just be
careful not to promise benefits that are odds with your compliance department.
4. Focus on the Start: Hook the reader in the first paragraph. Make sure the first
paragraph is no longer than 2 sentences and provides a very concise summary as to
what will be discussed in the following message. If possible try to fit in both what the
benefits will be of hearing this information and what the dangers are of not paying
attention to this information. Psychology studies consistently show that professionals
are almost twice as likely to listen more closely and take action on information related
Page 36 of 193

to a fear or some negative result rather than some potential benefit or positive
outcome. This does not mean you should scare clients into working with you, but you
should hook readers using framing that mentions the positive as well as negative
consequences of not taking action. The recent use of email browsers that let you
preview the first 50-150 words of email messages make the start of your email even
more important.
5. Use Professional Email Distribution Services: Use a professional email
distribution services such as Aweber, this costs $10/month or less to start using. By
using this service your emails will be delivered more often, your campaigns will be
more organized and the service will more than pay for itself through saving you and
your time valuable time. Make sure that whatever service you use, you consider opt-in
confirmation and enable an unsubscription link at the bottom of each email you send.
6. Automate Relationship Development: Use automated follow up emails. Write a
series of 20 educational emails covering industry white papers, industry findings,
commonly misunderstood terms, and information about your fund. Once you have
qualified an investor, ask for their permission to opt into an email list that will
automatically email these professionals once a month for the next 20 months. If you
deliver value in each of these 20 emails your further inquiries will be well received. We
currently use Aweber to send out automated emails to over 100,000 professionals each
month.
7. Use Stories: Whenever you are writing an email or sales letter try to incorporate a
story of some type. How was this product created? How did your career and experience
evolve and bring you to this point? Where have you gained your expertise and
knowledge? If you scroll up to the beginning of this post, you will see that I have a
short story about my own experience with email marketing that led me to write this
article.
8. Picture & Signature: End your communication with a picture of the professional on
your team that is held out as the communicator or leader. Make sure that a real
scanned signature and professional picture are included to help readers connect with
your team.
I hope these tips help you improve your email marketing campaigns.

Page 37 of 193

Do This If You Want to NOT Raise Capital
Everyone has advice on how to raise capital. Many times, the advice they give naturally
benefits them financially through expensive services, turn-key services, or consulting
retainers. While some who sell the following services or provide consulting in these will
surely disagree, here is a short list of things that may be stopping you from raising capital.
1. Trying to outsource all of your marketing activities to some third party
firm who will "handle everything." Why this is a waste: They won't handle everything,
and more importantly, your firm won't learn anything. It would be wise at some point
to outsource capital raising to a third party marketing firm but you still need to manage
the process, constantly help improve the marketing materials, participate in due
diligence calls, and review the Master DDQ.
2. Paying $3k-$10k for "placement" or "promotion" on a popular website
where your firm’s logo or bio is promoted more frequently than other managers. Why
this is a waste: Most of the time investors are searching for something very specific and
with this same $3-$10k you could meet with some high potential investors in person,
develop a video overview of your investment process, or reach out to hundreds of new
potential investors directly instead of trying to appear in front of them passively on a
website.
3. Paying for a family office database or hedge fund investor directory and
then blanket emailing the whole list hoping that this shotgun approach will result
in a handful of promising responses that will be easy to close on investing in your fund.
Why this is a waste: Nobody likes to be spammed and every family offices and investor
is different. To raise capital you must approach each high potential investor
individually and learn about how they work, how managers get approved by their
investment committee, what they look for in managers, and their history of investing in
the space. Never spam lists of potential investors.
4. Planning on the "build it and they will come" model. Many managers believe
that if they build the track record the money will come pouring in, but in my experience
this only happens in 5-7% of all fund manager businesses. Most that raise a lot of
capital did so consciously through constant effort and daily action towards the cause. I
was this morning in a meeting what the real secret is to raising capital for hedge funds
and my answer was, "it is simple, work very hard every day." If you have read my blog
than you know from past posts that I give a lot of practical advice on what to work hard
at each day...but that is at the essence of success in hedge fund marketing.

Page 38 of 193

Top 10 Hedge Fund Marketing Mistakes
Our team provides over 1,600 hedge funds a year with capital raising advice, resources and
products. Our team has also helped raise hundreds of millions of dollars in capital as well.
Through these two sources of experience we see many of the same fund marketing mistakes
made over and over again.
If you can avoid these mistakes you will be more effective than 80% of your competitors in the
marketplace.
Top 10 Fund Marketing Mistakes:
1. Mistake #1: You have a 3 month capital raising goal. This is un-realistic and the
wrong mindset to go out of the gates with. You need to plan, build relationships, educate
potential clients, and design high quality marketing strategies and materials for the long
term. It takes time to raise lots of capital and usually the more valuable the investor, the
longer the sales cycle. Don't try to cram everything into a 1-3 month capital raise.
2. Mistake #2: Counting on simply building a track record and then hoping to outsource
all marketing to a great third party marketing firm down the road. This puts all of your
eggs into the third party marketing basket. Third party marketers have hundreds of
potential clients approach them each year, it is risky to assume one will not only take
you on as a client but actually raise a sustainable level of capital for you.
3. Mistake #3: Spending $8,000 on graphic design and website design but $0 on hiring
someone who is an expert at sales letter construction, writing copy, and creating
headlines and taglines for your positioning in the marketplace that will be effective.
Many times I see fund managers that want to look very professional but there is no meat
in what they are saying, or hook to draw in the reader.
4. Mistake #4: Not dedicating resources to capital raising is the most obvious mistake
that I see in the industry. Many fund managers will act as the CIO, make 2-3 phone calls
a week or sometimes per month and then wonder why they have not raised more
capital. Performance does NOT market itself, pedigree does NOT swing all doors wide
open. You need to have dedicated resources, an internal marketing resource working at
least 20 hours a week, investor databases so you can spend your time calling on real
prospects instead of always having to qualify them, and have a growing internal CRM or
IRM system in place to track this investment in investor relationships.
5. Mistake #5: Speaking at conferences full of your closest competitors instead of your
highest value potential investors.
6. Mistake #6: Under-estimating the value of a first name basis relationship with your
top investor prospects. Some professionals, especially those with technical backgrounds
think that marketing is a numbers game. Yes, you sometimes have to reach out to many
to develop relationships with a few but relationships are at the core of everything that
gets done. As Jeffrey Gitomer says, "All things equal, people like to do business with
friends. All things being unequal, people still like to do business with friends."
Page 39 of 193

7. Mistake #7: Another mistake I see in the hedge fund space is a lack of capital raising
training or fund marketing instruction. You do not have to pay to have your marketing
staff trained but at the very least you should document your own best practices,
processes, investor pipeline development plans so they can be easily communicated to
team members, board members and then constantly improved each quarter.
8. Mistake #8: Missing the boat on authority positioning, educational forms of
marketing, and improving their own pedigree standing in the industry.
9. Mistake #9: Writing off PR: Most managers shy away from or completely ignore public
relations as an avenue for helping create interest and positioning for experts on their
team. Many funds have now successfully employed the media to spread messages about
their fund.
10. Mistake #10: A mistake that I see 90%+ funds doing today is using a boring, run of
the mill Unique Selling Proposition (USP), or worse yet, not having one at all.

Page 40 of 193

Powers Words to Raise Capital With
I was recently at an Eben Pagan training session on marketing and during a session at that
event we focused in on power words to use in copywriting.
Copywriting Definition: The use of powerful and persuasive writing in marketing to get your
prospect to action.
During this session Eben shows us the results of a college study that showed that the following
words are some of the most powerful in the entire human language:
* You
* Money
* Results
* Save
* New
* Easy
* Love
* Discovery
* Health
* Proven
* Guarantee
* Free
How many of these words are relevant for hedge fund marketing activities? Many. The truth
is that copywriting is an after-thought at best in our industry so if you can incorporate some of
these words in a way that doesn't come off as "salesy" than you could do very well by having
far more engaging marketing materials than your competitors. Some practical applications of
power words in your marketing could include:
* Team bios
* Pitch Books
* Email subject lines (big one)
* Voicemails
* One pager headline or description pieces
* Book & Whitepaper titles
Obviously throwing words randomly into a title or subject line is not going to increase the
response is you sound like everyone else in the industry so as usual it is not a cure-all for
raising capital but it definitely can help.

Page 41 of 193

Institutional Investors
SEI recently completed a survey of institutional investors and their perspective on hedge
funds. 100 institutions were surveyed and 47 were currently invested in hedge funds. Even the
ones who were investing in hedge funds had extra due diligence steps to ensure that each
allocation to a hedge fund manager is done in a deliberate and cautious fashion.
The problem I have with this is often selecting hedge funds in a "deliberate and cautious
fashion" often boils down to a RFP or due diligence checklist where you are basically looking
for those 30 hedge funds that can check every box on your list. This is not a bad thing to have
in itself but often it becomes the real life and center if not whole process in selecting a hedge
fund manager.
"Headline risk" was named by 37% of survey respondents as their biggest worry, followed by
lack of transparency (19%) and poor performance (15%). Institutions also remain cautious in
selecting hedge funds, the survey found, devoting an average of seven months to due diligence
and 12 additional weeks to approval.
Interviewees ranked "consistent, stable returns," "uncorrelated returns," and "high riskadjusted returns" as more important objectives than "high absolute returns." Seventy-two
percent of interviewees said the investment strategy, rather than performance, is their starting
point for hedge fund selection.
Paul Schaeffer, managing director of strategy and innovation for SEI’s investment manager
services division, says, “To maintain that growth trajectory, the hedge fund industry will need
to branch out from its traditional high-net-worth, foundation and endowment clientele to
serve the broader institutional market.” He adds: “But to compete for those assets, the
industry must recognize that large institutions have a distinct set of demands.”
Top 4 Factors Institutional Investors Look For In Hedge Funds
1. Reporting & Transparency (85% of institutional investors reported that they would not
invest in a strategy they did not understand)
2. Institutional Quality Infrastructure and Operations (54% of institutional investors
pointed out that better managed firms return higher performance)
3. People. Build stable hedge fund management teams at all levels the hedge fund company
4. Disciplines. Shift away from focusing exclusively on performance to investment
disciplines.
The white paper concludes by stating:
The take-away message is that institutions clearly prefer to do business
with institutional-style organizations," concluded Schaeffer. "For hedge
funds, the challenge will be to fit the profile of an institutional-quality fund
while preserving the performance attributes that attracted major
investors in the first place."

Page 42 of 193

Hedge Fund Marketing Materials Tips
Below is a list of my top 10 tips to those professionals who are looking to create a pitch book
for their hedge fund. My advice to both $30M and $1M hedge funds is that you can never start
this process early enough. It is an iterative constantly evolving project that will never be
complete. Here are the top 10 tips for creating your hedge fund marketing materials.
1. Think long-term. Invest in creating a robust institutional quality pitch book the first
time around and complete 5 drafts of it internally before showing it to a single investor.
2. Stress your team, investment process, and risk management controls and how they all
interact inside the operations of your hedge fund.
3. Make your competitive advantage clear and do not rely upon canned phrases such as
“positive returns in bull or bear markets” anyone who reviews hedge fund materials for
a living see these by the hour. Your advantage must be unique.
4. Stress the importance and individual functions of your team, your experiences and
pedigree. This should be the foundation upon which everything else is built.
5. Do not send any pitchbook or marketing material out before speaking with a qualified
compliance or legal counsel on your team.
6. Create a one page marketing sheet, full 13-20+ page PowerPoint presentation and one
page newsletter that would be released monthly providing your view of the markets in
your niche area of expertise.
7. Work with high caliber service providers so that you don’t bring extra skepticism upon
a relatively new fund that may already be scrutinized by potential investors and
advisors.
8. Use your whole team and prime brokerage business partners and other service
providers to improve your marketing materials. Professionals who work in prime
brokerage or administration see many types of marketing materials and can help
provide valuable feedback at no additional cost to your fund.
9. Do not create a PowerPoint presentation that is longer than 30 pages. There are some
institutional money managers who run 3 similar funds and will sometimes cover each
of these in a single presentation, but this is the exception. 95% of the people who you
will send the PowerPoint presentation to will not ready more than 15 pages of the
material unless you are walking them through it over the phone or in person.
10. Purchase the rights to graphics, choose a unique, simple and professional layout for the
presentation and use the new Windows Vista diagramming tools to create institutional
quality presentation. Coming into a meeting with a word document or 25 pages of
bullet points is not very effective. It is hard enough to catch an investors’ attention and
bring them to the table to discuss your fund, you don’t want to lose them due to the
aesthetics of your PowerPoint.
Page 43 of 193

Combating a Battered Image of Hedge Funds
While G20 leaders meet and among other things discuss the global regulation of hedge funds
it is important to consider what we as hedge fund professionals can do to help improve the
overall image and collective actions of the hedge fund industry. At some point it is in the best
interest of everyone in the industry to not only act with the best intentions but to also take it
one step further and pro-actively communicate a consistent message of transparency and
trust to fellow employees, investors and the general public.
There are concrete things that hedge fund managers can take action on today to help improve
their ability to manage their image and their share of the hedge fund industry's image through
their investors, press inquiries and the conferences and networking events they attend. A few
steps that can be taken could include:
1. Creating a Formal Board of Advisors: I have seen some hedge funds grow not because
they have hired the most third party marketing firms or spent the most on face-to-face
paid introductions but because they sought advice and advisory from a diverse and
experienced group of industry professionals. Building a board of advisors of 4-12
professionals with experience in running the portfolio management, marketing, and
operations of a fund can make the difference between making it to the $100M and $1B
marks or staying off the radar of most investors forever.
2. Managing Your Public Relations: No, you do not need to spend $12,000 a month on a
public relations consultant, but at the very least you should speak with other managers
on how they handle inquiries. Talk with your compliance advisor about what you can
say and not say, and decide, as a fund, what clear messages you will be trying to send
when there are opportunities to speak with the press or at an event or conference.
These opportunities are numerous for those who seek them and are ready to execute
when the time is right.
3. Creating an Ethics Policy: Every fund, from the three person startup to the 300employee multi-billion dollar funds should have an ethics policy. This policy should be
public, followed and principles-based as much possible since new situations arise daily
that may not fit a rigid list of rules and commands.
4. Increase or Emphasize Your Skin in the Game: Many investors, press professionals and
consultants I speak with often forget that a good number of hedge fund managers have
invested in their own portfolios. If you have 70-100% of your net worth or liquid net
worth invested in your fund, explain this to your investors it is surprising how seldom
this is mentioned in current industry marketing materials. You need to have something
to lose if clients lose, in many cases investors want a group that is motivated to quickly
cut potential losses and protect the portfolio above all else.

Page 44 of 193

Hedge Fund Logo | Branding Help
If you are looking to improve the branding for your hedge fund or setup a new hedge fund I
would strongly recommend using Design99.com for the work. Here is how it works.
You go to Design99.com and start a new contest for $300, you get dozens if not hundreds of
logo proposals from designers all over the world. You provide them feedback as they compete
with each other for the $300 payment. If you like one of the logos enough after a week you
choose them as the winner and that one designer gets paid $300. It is a very inexpensive way
to review dozens of ideas and then pay only for what you like.
I am not an affiliate of Design99. I do not get paid in any way for writing this. I simply have
found the business such a valuable resource that I believe this will help many hedge fund
managers improve their marketing and branding efforts. Hope this helps.

Page 45 of 193

Hedge Fund Marketing Best Practice - Kick Your
Own Ass
Lately I have been meeting with and speaking to many experts in capital raising that
collectively have raised over $100B in the hedge fund industry. One thing keeps coming up
again and again while we complete these interviews for the upcoming Hedge Fund Marketing
Mechanics product.
That is that while there are best practices, time saving strategies, costly mistakes to avoid, and
blazed paths to follow part of the winning solution for hedge fund marketing is simply
working your face off.
You have to make mistakes, take action, implement what you learn, and try what is being
taught. You cannot outsource everything, you have to invest your personal time in doing
these things and as Wyatt Woodsmall says knowing plus doing is when learning occurs.
Simply knowing something leads to zero growth and zero progress. You can know everything
in the world but without taking action you are not going to raise a single dollar. Jeffrey
Gitomer was one of the first "sales gurus" that I was trained by and he always talked about
waking up every morning and kicking your own ass. If you do this daily, and with focus you
are 20x more likely to eventually succeed and raise the capital you need.
I hope this post is reassuring to those who are reaching out to potential investors daily and
constantly improving their marketing materials and a source of motivation for those who have
been putting it off for too many months or years without serious attention.

Page 46 of 193

4 Steps to Investor Pipeline Development
I was making my way through some marketing training materials last night from Mr. Frank
Kern and came across a marketing process that may seem somewhat like common sense, but
helps to think about to ensure that you are presenting a complete marketing message to your
potential fund investors. In the marketing training program Kern suggests you follow this
process while moving your prospects through different phases of engaging your firm:
1. Interest and Desire: Provide a white paper, speech, update your perspective of the markets
that catches the attention of your potential investor
2. Trust: Develop a relationship with the potential investor, build trust by providing client
quotes, industry recommendations, and comparison analytics between your fund and others.
3. Proof: Show proof that your fund has a high degree team, detailed consistent investment
processes in place, and an advantage of some type that can be tangibly displayed or
confirmed.
4. Sample: Allow the investor to start with a small minimum investment, provide examples of
what other investors like them have done in the past, or present case studies on three different
types of typical investors that you serve so they can imagine then being in that position.
The descriptions next to each bold word above are less important than the process itself. If
you can grab the attention of the investor, build a relationship with them, provide proof of
your abilities and performance, and then combine that with a sample you will be several steps
ahead of much of your competition.

Page 47 of 193

Bad News: There is NO Magic Bullet
The bad news is there is no magic bullet to raising capital. I spoke with at least a dozen
managers this past week at our Hedge Fund Premium networking event in Chicago. Most
were looking for capital raising help of some type and we discussed many roadblocks that
managers are seeing between them and the AUM levels they are trying to achieve.
Our firm provides some capital raising tools, but I believe that daily action and discipline is
the best thing that a fund can do to raise capital. They must take responsibility for marketing
their fund and have someone reaching out to new investors on a daily basis. If they do not,
they will forever remain in the bottom 20% of the industry in terms of assets. Very few funds
gain their initial assets through a super powerful third party marketing firm. Third party
marketers typically like to work with managers that have some AUM momentum or
foundation underneath them.
To raise capital, I believe managers need to have superior tools and processes when compared
to their competitors. This means superior investor cultivation processes in place, superior
investor relationships management, superior marketing materials, superior outreach efforts,
superior email marketing, and superior focus on investors that actually have the potential of
making an investment. Each of those topics mentioned above could be discussed for a whole
conference and all of these moving parts need to be in place to compete in today’s industry.
While this does not mean you need to out-spend others, you do need to strategically plan your
marketing campaign.
There is a good quote that I heard that goes something like “If you want to have what others
don’t you have to do what others won’t” In other words if you want to grow assets you must
put in the extra work, planning, and strategy that others skip over.
Every morning I try to listen to a 45-minute, custom MP3 audio session of business lessons,
marketing tips, and positive thinking notes. A great quote I hear every morning by Brian
Tracy: “Successful people dislike doing the same things that unsuccessful people dislike to do,
but successful people get them done anyways because they know that is the price of success.”
This is connected to an interview Brian conducts in which a multi-millionaire says that
success is easy. “You must decide exactly what it is you want, and then pay the price to get to
that point.”
All of this may sound wishy-washy or non-exact but I think it is very important to realize that
there is no one single magic bullet for raising capital. It takes hard work, trial and error, and a
superior effort on all fronts to stand out from your competition.

Page 48 of 193

Best Practices of Large Hedge Funds
Below is a bullet point list of some of the best practices I have seen in $1B+ hedge funds that
often times are missing in smaller hedge funds.
Giant, well-run hedge funds often have:
1. Better research processes in place. These are constantly being improved in many ways
every quarter. They focus on kazien, the act of constantly improving.
2. Documentation. Their compliance processes, operational procedures, compliance
checks, internal controls, hiring processes, and risk management techniques are all
documented in great detail to help ensure consistent quality and improve what is being
carried out
3. International marketing and sales teams that cover institutional investors and
consultants in Europe and the United States, if not also in Australia, South Africa,
South America, and Asia.
4. Deep pedigree with larger pocketbooks. The largest of hedge funds are able to retain
the most experienced experts not only as adjunct advisors to the fund but full time
employees or consultants that provide daily or weekly insights on upcoming
investment opportunities.
5. Human Resources strategies. Many small hedge funds do not have any long-term talent
development, or Star Employee hiring practices in place. Larger hedge funds do and
must to keep their organization moving forward and growing over the long-term.
6. Master DDQs. Every large hedge fund I know of has a very thorough master due
diligence questionnaire that is constantly updated. The larger the hedge fund, the
more likely it is that their investors will be asking for a very thorough DDQ during the
due diligence phase.
7. Superior Marketing. Larger hedge funds have moved to the top of the learning curve
when it comes to raising capital. They use multi-modality marketing channels and
materials, and they have relationship development processes and goals in place that
match up with the long-term growth goals of the fund. They are also more than willing
to invest in the best graphic designers and sales copy writers who can provide another
edge over those who skimp on their image and marketing presence.
8. More In-House Functions. While large hedge funds still use service providers and rely
upon business partners, many of them have large enough staffs and unique enough
processes that some work such as some investment research, operations, accounting,
or marketing may be done in-house instead of being outsourced to service providers
such as administrators or third party marketers.
9. More Verification Points. The largest hedge funds have been asked 500+ times for their
holdings, and 3,000+ times for their PowerPoint presentation. They have completed
hundreds of due diligence processes and are use to working with consultants who need
Page 49 of 193

to check every fact, assertion, and claim. They are use to operating in the world of
providing evidence for everything said, and because of this may quickly meet the
requests of investors who ask for such evidence.
10. Long-Term Strategies & Goals. Most large hedge funds I know of plan strategically for
the next 3-7 years when evaluating who they hire, who they market their fund to, and
where they open offices. In contrast, most small hedge funds are very focused on dayto-day or month-to-month operations and most think in terms of 1-3 year plans. When
investors see the fund planning for and investing for the long haul, it shows. That is part
of why some larger hedge funds receive more allocations than small ones. They have the
infrastructure and mindset more in common with an institutional investor.

Page 50 of 193

Presuppositions: How to Use a Presupposition
Here, we are going to talk about presupposition. This is something that may be used to help
write a newsletter, email, or elevator pitch. It comes from the world of Neural Linguistic
Programming (NLP) and it is very applicable to day-to-day business, marketing, and sales
activities.
Presupposition can be defined as the way of marketing in which you assume that the audience
is going to be buying into your ideas. For example, we are coming out with a Capital Raising
DVD Training program. Below is a marketing pitch for this using the presupposition
approach.
Example: The Capital Raising DVD product consists of 6 DVDs, a workbook, a cheat
sheet, 2 audio CDs, and flash cards. After you have purchased the product, we will
email you your membership details and you can begin using our training materials
online. It will then take approximately 6 days to receive your box of training materials
in the mail. Once these materials are received, you will have the option of using the
hard copy materials or the digital copies available online.
Note: Many times in the paragraph I referred to actions the person “would take,” I did not
refer to actions that the person might take or “might take if they decide to purchase.” The
importance here is assuming they will be purchasing your product. If you have something
truly valuable, then you will be speaking directly to individuals who will in fact buy your
product. The power of this thinking is that it helps build momentum towards making the sale.
It moves them closer to completing the order form.
Warning: If you do not have a good relationship with your email marketing list or are you
brand new to the industry, the over-use of this tactic can come off as cheap and look like
hucksterism; use it lightly. This tactic is not a magic bullet. It does not mean you can ignore
standard copywriting, risk removal, product samples, and testimonials. This is one of 20-30
tactics that when all used together, will help raise the response received from traffic on a
website or mailings sent to an email list.

Page 51 of 193

William Edwards Deming
An influential person for me in business is William Edward Deming. He has a quote that
reads, "If you can't describe what you are doing as a process, you don't know what you are
doing,"
I think this also goes along with another popular business quote, "What gets documented gets
improved."
Most investment funds and family offices that I have worked with do not have an investor
cultivation process or pipeline drawn out as a process. They do not have their ongoing
investor communication strategy documented, and in many places the only documentation of
their investment process is at a very high level in their marketing materials. I think many
hedge funds, portfolio managers, and capital raisers could benefit from using PowerPoint or a
free program such as Bubbl to document their processes.
This documenting of critical processes takes little time and costs nothing to do but allows you
to step back from the process and evaluate it, improve it, or delegate where appropriate. Our
firm recently used Bubbl and PowerPoint together to describe a business process we were
completing ourselves. We were able to not only use this internally but also externally as we
trained a third party we had outsourced some work to.
The processes I have found to be valuable to document are:





Investor acquisition process
Current investor communication strategy
Hiring new employees
Managing your portfolio on an ongoing basis

Page 52 of 193

Emulating Capital Raising Best Practices
Last week I completed a presentation on capital raising in Moscow for the Bank Conference
event on private banking. While there, I heard Graham Harvey from the Scorpio Partnership
speak on wealth management and family offices. Some interesting points from his
presentation:
 The financial recession really resulted in 2 levels of losses for HNW wealth managers:
The 1st round was real portfolio losses, the 2nd round is reduced % of inflows and
slightly lower margins, at this same time there is some inflow opportunity from other
private banks and family offices
 Right now many private banks are focusing on developing a higher relationship
management focus
 75% of the top 20 banks have been associated with bailouts or capitalization efforts
 The wealth management market is large with an estimated size of $14.5T in AUM
 Best practices outside the banking industry are very valuable to banks. I see this with
hedge funds and family offices.
The last point above is the most important take-away. Graham has consulted with some of
the fastest growing and largest banks in the industry. One of his top suggestions is to take
lessons learned from other markets, such as luxury goods or fast moving consumer goods, and
apply those lessons to the private banking or hedge fund industries. I think that this is an area
where hedge funds could take note and pick up some new best practices in terms of marketing
and capital raising.

Page 53 of 193

Alternative Investment Marketing & Sales
Yesterday morning I completed my speech on “5 Best Practices for Hedge Fund Marketing” at
the Marcus Evans Fund of Hedge Fund Summit in Boca Raton, Florida. I got connected with
some great funds that I have never heard of before and also ran into a few followers of
HedgeFundBlogger.com and the FamilyOfficesGroup.com.
Below, please find some of the most useful and practical tips that I mentioned during my
speech. The full video recording of the speech along with the PowerPoint will be available as
part of the training materials in the Hedge Fund Group’s Certified Hedge Fund Professional
(CHP) program in the Marketing & Sales focus of Level 2.
1. Focus on Building Authority: The power of true authority in an industry trickles down
and puts other influential factors into motion that help you develop valuable relationships
2. Move the Free Line: Give away your best ideas in press inquiries, books, interviews,
articles, white papers and videos
3. Diverse Investor Case Studies: Have at least two case studies of investors choosing to
place capital with your firm for each of the major distribution channels you are focusing on
raising capital from. For example have six total case studies if 90% of your efforts are
focused on family offices, wealth management firms, and HNW individual selling.
4. The 4 P’s of Marketing Materials: Focus on Pedigree, Process (USP), Portfolio Risk, and
Presentation Quality

Page 54 of 193

Copywriting for Capital Raising
Before starting this article I want to quickly define what copywriting is. Copywriting is the use
of words to promote a person, business, opinion or idea.
Copywriting is the most undervalued and overlooked tool that a marketer or sales professional
can develop. Many professionals value cold calling skills, networking, branding, or public
relations skills but I think that copywriting skills are the most valuable.
Top 5 Reasons Copywriting for Capital Raising is Important:
1) The headline of your letters, subject line of your emails, and first few words of your
speeches are the most important. Crafting a great headline can take hours to complete,
but can make the difference when it comes to being shown to others and never being
noticed.
2) Many hedge funds, family offices, and private equity groups spend over $20,000 on
their marketing materials each year, yet 95% of the money allocated is done so because
that’s what has always been done or what sounds good. There is no A/B testing, and no
efforts to find what may be more effective.
3) Every investment fund markets itself using emails and investor letters. Without
copywriting skills you may not only be failing to connect with your audience, you could
actually be turning them off and pushing clients away.
4) Investment funds of all types are started by successful traders and portfolio managers.
Very few are started only by marketers. As such, niche marketing practices, like
copywriting, are often overlooked or seen as unimportant.
5) 99% of your competitors are not using copywriting best practices

Page 55 of 193

Fund Marketing License Requirements
Below is a recent question that I have received often via email:
What licenses should a hedge fund marketer hold? I have heard that one should have their
series 7 and series 66, is this true? Also, what licenses should I hold if I am going to be
marketing my firms separate account business and mutual fund as well as their hedge fund?
Thanks.
My response:
I don't think you will find many responses to your question online. Most professionals are
afraid of being seen as providers of legal or license-based advice over the internet. I would
check with a broker-dealer, security lawyer, or compliance officer in the industry for your
exact situation.
That said, in the past I have had one employer swear up and down that you hardly ever need a
securities license to market the investment funds he worked with. Most professionals that I
work with agree that you do need to be licensed for most types of work. The more professional
and established a group is, the more likely they will be licensed. Why lose an account or client
over not being licensed?
Hope this helps. Good luck and let’s keep in touch.

Page 56 of 193

Hedge Fund Seed Capital
Hedge Fund Seed capital is the money a hedge fund tries to raise to launch or in its first year
of operating to try to "get it off the ground" and hopefully raise enough assets to appear
respectable to initial investors and provide initial momentum towards breaking even as a
business. Hedge fund seed capital is in high demand, there are literally hundreds of
investment groups looking for it right now and only three or four handfuls will receive any
significant amount of it. Some hedge funds are seeded with as little as $500,00 while others
receive up to $350M. From my experience I would guess that 68% of first year hedge fund
seed capital levels range from $3M to $25M.
Hedge Fund Seed Capital Sources
1) Hedge Fund Seed Capital Source #1: High net worth individuals (accredited investors)
who are familiar with your trading skills, past portfolio management experience, or
clearly understand your competitive advantage in the marketplace.
2) Hedge Fund Seed Capital Source #2: Family & friends who are accredited investors.
3) Hedge Fund Seed Capital Source #3: Private equity firms. Many private equity funds
have jumped into the space of seeding hedge funds and many will in turn work on
raising assets for your fund once it will benefit both your fund and themselves.
4) Hedge Fund Seed Capital Source #4: Hedge funds. Some hedge funds have huge
amounts of free cash flow and are looking for ways to re-invest it in strategies they
understand and do not directly compete with products that they plan to create on their
own.
5) Hedge Fund Seed Capital Source #5: Associated banks or investment networks will
often seed new hedge fund products they are launching with significant levels of
capital.
Hedge Fund Seed Capital-Related Trends
If you read hedge fund news every day, you will notice several trends emerging in the area of
hedge fund seed capital. The most prominent is, as mentioned above: many private equity
firms are aggressively placing seed capital with emerging hedge fund managers.
The second is that most of hedge fund seed capital is coming from established hedge funds
and private equity groups or investment banks. I believe that banks are succeeding in
convincing a small fund to give up 20-40% of equity in return for the funds because they also
come with marketing and distribution resources that will make the total pool of available fees
much greater. Many hedge fund managers have become millionaires after accepting outside
seed money or an equity investment.

Page 57 of 193

Marketing Hedge Funds to Financial Advisors
Almost every hedge fund manager has asset-raising goals and ambitions. I often get emails
from hedge fund managers looking for someone who can help them raise capital. In general,
hedge funds can raise assets through either:
1. Increasing their effectiveness in current channels of distribution, or
2. Pursuing new channels of distribution
Due to the difficulty in recruiting experienced hedge fund marketing professionals, most
hedge funds stick to where they have raised assets in the past and in areas they are most
comfortable. Some have seen some success for others or their own firm. Many aren't aware of
all the new channels available to them, or how to capitalize on each one.

Page 58 of 193

Capital Raising Methods and Focus
Below is a paragraph excerpt from the Hedge Fund Book, published by Wiley in 2010. It
shares some advice on targeting different types of investors. While other consultants in the
industry charge $250-$400/hr to provide this advice to hedge fund managers, I give it away
here on my blog for free and in the book. I do this because my business is based on being a
source of genuine education and valuable resources instead of just press releases and news reruns.
The method by which Tassini Capital Management was
raising capital was not effective. In addition to not using an
Investor Relationship Management System the team had
somewhat randomly been approaching many different
types of investors from large European banks to small seed
capital providers. The third party marketing firm consulted
Chris and Brian Tassini and found that they were both unwilling to part with equity ownership in the management
company of the fund in exchange for capital. They also
reviewed past notes and confirmed that all efforts to work
through institutional investment consultants had been
stalled due to sub $100M AUM levels.
The result was a much more focused method of
systematically approaching a mix of investors that included
10% institutional investment consultants, 50% wealth
management firms, 20% multi-family offices, and 20% high
net worth individuals. While institutional investment
consultants were not going to invest any time soon they
were kept in the mix so that the team could continue to
receive valuable institutionalization feedback from the
consultants.

Page 59 of 193

Power of Focus
Below is a quote I used while speaking with an investment fund manager last week that was
looking to raise capital. They were doing so by approaching every investor they could possibly
reach. They were explaining to me that firm has so little resources compared to their $1B
competitors, and I replied with the quote below:
“You can take a $5 disposable camera and take it out of the box,
stand 10 feet from a building and take a great picture that will be
developed and look good, if not great. You could stand in that
same position with a $10,000 camera with every gadget, lens, and
a tripod and it will not take as good of a picture if you do not do
one thing: focus.”
- Brian Tracy
The point: You can beat your competition with a smaller staff, with less financial resources,
and less experience if you learn to focus. Focus on your top prospect investors, focus on local
potential investors, and focus exclusively on the types of investors that are most likely to make
allocations to your fund. If you can dial-in on these three areas your hot prospect list, local
investors and the right investor mix (family offices, wealth management, pension funds, etc.),
than you can really cover a lot of ground quickly.

Page 60 of 193

Hedge Fund Media Exposure & PR
In the past, hedge funds were barred from advertising or marketing themselves to the general
public but they are often turning up in news stories. A report by Walek & Associates claimed
that hedge funds are mentioned in news articles over 100 times day, and over 39,000
times/year. This analysis was using data from 2005 and it does not include electronic
newsletters or blogs. With 2008 numbers and the inclusion of blogs, I would guess that hedge
funds are mentioned in ~1,200 articles each day.
Armel Leslie from Walek & Associates recommends that hedge funds heed the following
advice when it comes to managing their PR exposure:
- Understand what the press wants and how they operate
- Have your own agenda and message every time you talk to a reporter
- Build and maintain relationships with key media
- Try to avoid “no comment”
- Assume everything is “on the record”
Most of that seems pretty Mickey Mouse but it is good advice as most hedge fund
professionals have no PR training or experience and it can be an introduction to new investors
or employees if managed right. Some people think that hedge funds are now choosing
strategies in part that have a natural ability to gain a lot of attention from the media. It helps
them build a brand and find new investors. Who hasn't heard of Citadel?
Third party marketing firms, hedge fund sales professionals and PR consultants who have real
proven expertise in hedge fund media relations are worth more than they are usually paid. I
would like to start a discussion around hedge fund pr strategies, trends and research. Do you
have a few great or painful experiences that others can learn from? If anyone has a comment
or question, please share it by emailing me.

Page 61 of 193

Investor Due Diligence & Emerging Managers
My background is in marketing and I know one of the big challenges of raising capital for both
emerging and medium sized hedge funds is that everyone wants their 3, 15 or 125 checkboxes
to be complete. There are so many investment managers competing for capital that investors
must limit who they seriously consider and complete expensive due diligence on to those that
have top percentile performance, risk management tools, track records and AUM figures. This
can be very frustrating and an ongoing challenge for many managers trying to grow their
business and assets under management.
I got this email earlier today from a hedge fund manager:
"It would be interesting for you to post an article on how hedge funds
that are doing well in 2009 are not necessarily the ones who will get
capital given stricter due diligence requirements. For example, our
fund, the XXXX XXXXX Fund was up over 50% through May and is
up something in the range of 60% as an estimate through June yet it is
still very difficult to raise capital because nobody wants to allocate to
smaller funds."
and a follow up email from this same fund later in the day:
I have come across your page a bunch of times and I figured I would
make the suggestion. When you think back to when hedge funds first
became popular, having the best of the best portfolio managers
manage money for the extremely wealthy was more of a status
symbol than anything else. Alternative investments have obviously
evolved over time. But the idea was that these investors would take
some risk in order to enable their personal portfolio managers to
generate outsized returns. People seem to lose sight of the fact that
there is still a tremendous amount of talented, brilliant managers out
there who have been through many cycles and have the capacity to do
extremely in months and years to come. Now is a time when people
who take risk will get richer. Yet people are so gun shy that they run
the risk of overlooking the best talent and missing opportunities that
may, in some cases, only be available to the 200mm or 300mm
boutique shops. They lose sight of what the business is about, of what
they invested with hedge funds for in the first place. Unfortunately, it
has boiled down to investors being more concerned with checking
boxes and analysts at institutional investment firms being more
concerned with keeping their jobs than truly finding the best talent.
While I don't agree 100% with the statement above, the manger makes a few good points and I
would be interested in more feedback that other managers have about overcoming the
"checkbox mentality."

Page 62 of 193

Hedge Fund Advertising & Marketing Ideas
There are many restrictions on hedge fund advertising and marketing. Due to the broad
mandates and relatively lenient registration and disclosure rules, hedge funds in the United
States are only allowed to accept investments from accredited investors and institutions.
While this means hedge funds cannot take out TV or radio commercials, there are many more
gray areas where many hedge funds are now “promoting” or “branding” themselves. I never
provide financial advice on HedgeFundBlogger.com and this is surely not a recommended or
list of “safe” ways to market your fund. No matter what you hear from a consultant or at a
conference, always check with your own compliance officer or legal counsel before taking any
action. Here is a list of ways in which funds are currently marketing their strategies:
• Websites – Many funds have websites describing their firm and investment strategy.
Some go as far as to explain what their strategy is in detail along with their current assets
under management and who is on their portfolio management team. These websites may
cost between $1,000 and $25,000 to create and generally $30-500/month to maintain. A
few hedge fund managers even run blogs.
• Public Relations Professionals – Many hedge funds actively engage public relations firms
to help increase the number of quotes or in-story mentions their fund’s executives get placed
in mainstream media outlets. These consultants may work on some one-off crisis
management projects for a premium but generally prefer $2-12k/month retainers instead.
• Book Publishing – One of the many ways that hedge fund managers are promoting their
businesses is through publishing books on the topic of hedge funds. These books may be on
industry trends, portfolio management theories or one’s experience in the industry. Many
professionals in the wealth management space are hungry to learn more about hedge funds
and books that bridge the gap between what can be learned in editorial articles versus an
educational book. Some niche publishers will publish books by hedge fund managers but
most avoid publishing anyone who doesn’t have a marketing network or a real “media brand”
behind their name that has been built up for several years. Due to this fact some hedge fund
managers self-publish their own books through programs such as Lulu.com.
• Conferences – One way that hedge fund managers market themselves each week is by
speaking at conferences and events in the industry. These events could discuss marketing and
sales, hedge funds in general or be on niche subjects related to family offices or activist
investing. This strategy can be highly effective because it can support and serve as a direct
marketing arm for the strategies mentioned above. Most speaking engagements do not pay,
but many firms will at least cover your expenses and display your logo and name prominently
at the event. Broker dealer conferences can also be productive events for hedge fund
managers to attend. If you can gain a distribution agreement with HNW-focused brokerdealer and obtain a speaking engagement or booth at their event it can be a great way to get
your foot in the door with some new face-to-face relationships with HNW advisors with the
specific broker-deal group holding the conference.
• External Consultants – While not technically advertising, thousands of funds choose to use
the help of external consultants to help market their hedge funds. These consultants could
be experts in raising capital in a specific channel, creating marketing materials or creating a
Page 63 of 193

marketing message. Those consultants who take on whole or partial responsibility for
raising assets on behalf of the hedge fund manager are often referred to as third party
marketers.


Naturally, it is important to complete thorough due diligence upon any groups that you
ask to represent you in the market for both effectiveness and compliance reasons. Do
not simply sign-up with someone to represent your hedge fund simply because they
promise that they can raise the assets that you have been looking to raise.



There are many other ways to market and grow your hedge fund that are unrelated to
advertising or traditional marketing, but most of these fall under more traditional
means or external consultants. If you have any unique ideas or have heard of any
other effective methods that fast growing hedge funds have used, please send them by
email.

Page 64 of 193

Hedge Fund Marketing Plan | Tenacity Q & A
Question: Richard, from a capital raising perspective, what would you say is the time frame
to raise money (say $10+ million) for a small, start-up hedge fund with no name recognition
and with principals who have no name recognition and no pedigree in the alternative
investment world? I would say 12 months at best. What do you think?
Answer: Great question. I would say 16 - 20 months would be realistic if they keep their
heads down, have a great team, and use solid investment process. Those are big if's though - it
is easy to get distracted or discouraged. The first fund I marketed took 9 straight months of
cold calling, emails, and conferences to raise a single dollar, but after 18 months we were
raising $1M/week in new assets.

Page 65 of 193

Hedge Fund Marketing in 2009
The right pedigree, strategy and track record is no longer a guaranteed recipe for success in
raising or retaining of assets. More so than ever both hedge fund startups and established
hedge funds are distinguishing themselves from similar strategies by marketing not only their
track record and pedigree but also their operational, portfolio, and regulatory infrastructure.
Funds that fail to address the growing concern over fraud, mismanagement, operational, and
regulatory risk may miss out on the opportunity to attract the billions of dollars of capital that
has left the industry and may well be reallocated in 2009. Like it or not, the perception of the
new world investor is that infrastructure and performance are directly connected.
To be well positioned in 2009, hedge funds must address an investor’s growing concern over
operational and regulatory risk. This new level of scrutiny will increase the importance of
effective and documented operational and regulatory risk management. Responding to a
potential investor’s increasing desire for full transparency will be paramount.
Even if a fund’s AUM is small it can still improve its marketing position with investors in a
cost effective manner by communicating a clear, transparent and customized plan to
strategically mitigate risk as assets grow. Noted below are just some of the minimum “high
risk” areas a successful hedge fund should focus on no matter its size or strategy:
* Portfolio management, investment guidelines, trade allocation, trade errors, best
execution;
* Independent and verifiable valuation policies and procedures, and for illiquid securities,
strong consideration to the creation of a valuation committee;
* Personal trading policies and procedures, processes and controls; and
* Contingency planning and business continuity.
The tangible benefits of a robust operational and regulatory infrastructure for both start-up
and established hedge funds:
* Marketing edge;
* increase investor’s perception of value in management;
* discover unknown risks to mitigate losses;
* maximize absolute returns;
* streamline investors’ due diligence process; and
* increase the likelihood of success in retaining and raising new assets.
Gary Mair is Principal of Fund Advisor, LLC. A former General Counsel, CCO, and Executive
to two leading alternative asset management firms, Mr. Mair advises start–up and established
hedge funds on operational and securities law matters relating to fund formation, pre-launch
marketing, due diligence, infrastructure, best practices or benchmark operational, and
regulatory processes and controls. For more information about him and Fund Advisor, LLC,
please visit their web site at www.hfundadvisor.com, or contact Mr. Mair directly at 203-6537159.

Page 66 of 193

Psychology of Sales Call Reluctance Tips
It would be interesting to learn more about the psychology of sales call reluctance. There are
some days where I am just "on" and I can make 50 calls and initiate some great relationships.
Then, there are days where I make a decent amount of calls but I find myself drifting towards
less productivity activities like cleaning out my emails or organizing my past prospect
research.
The four tips I can suggest to minimize sales call reluctance are:
1) Have a winning positive attitude as described in my post on positive psychology
2) Write out all of your goals on paper. Keep a running list of all 10, 50, or 500 of these on
your computer, reviewing and adding to them each month.
3) Realize that most people do know what they want and even more do not want to pay
the price to earn what they want, even if they do know what it is. If your job includes
building relationships, chances are you need to be paying the price daily by jumping on
the phone for a few hours.
4) Choose a moment of time where you felt completely confident, successful, and
rewarded for something that you accomplished and really earned. Picture this moment
in your mind and re-live it as if it were happening again right now. Replay it in your
mind. Now, try bringing this picture to the forefront of your thinking each morning
before you start on your calls. Bring this picture to your mind whenever you are not
motivated to jump on your next call instead of searching for a pair of Red Sox tickets on
the Internet.
Also, it has been brought to my attention that my title for this blog is also the title of a great
book on the topic written by George Dudley. This connection was not intended but I thought it
was only fair to cite this book as a resource for those how want more information.

Page 67 of 193

Hedge Fund Seeding Capital
A recent study showed that hedge funds receiving seeding and operational assistance
outperform broad hedge fund indexes and average hedge fund performance figures. This
study was completed by George Martin and Joseph Pescatore from the University of
Massachusetts and Jefferies Asset Management.
Pescatore makes the point that in the past there was a somewhat negative connotation to
discussing how a hedge fund may have received seed capital or operational support during
their first 3-5 years of operation. Specifically, he said, “The question investors asked a hedge
fund manager, ‘if you are any good, why do you need these guys?’ I think not only has it
changed, I think that has completely reversed.” It seems that Pescatore now believe that if you
are “that good” you should have money being thrown at you from multiple hedge fund
seeders.
While some people may not be as positive as Pescatore on seed capital being a good thing, I
believe the general feeling is, if you aren’t tied down by stringent terms or pressure that
impact your investment process as the result of the seed capital or support, then it is a positive
thing. That will only bolster your business, showing a vote of confidence by an outside firm.

Page 68 of 193

Guest Article: Financial Public Relations
Below is a guest article provided by Dukas Public Relations. It focuses on financial public
relations and how some hedge funds are using PR experts to help them navigate the waters
of mainstream media outlets.
While it is illegal to promote hedge funds, there are ways to indirectly do so. And the SEC is
considering new rules that could allow financial PR groups more room to maneuver.
Hedge funds, one of the fastest-growing corners of the financial industry - one insider calls
them the new dotcoms - remain an elusive domain for Public Relations experts. Vaguely
understood by the public, largely unregulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC), and dabbled in by only wealthy or institutional investors, the $850 billion hedge fund
world does not lend itself easily to publicity.
For one thing, promoting hedge funds is illegal: Only investors accredited by the hedge funds
are allowed to get information about them. If a fund is promoted beyond accredited investors,
the SEC can halt money going into it and even level sanctions.
Hedge funds are the purview of large financial investors, like investment banks, and the wellconnected wealthy who can stomach sharp windfalls. Like mutual funds, their regulated
cousins for the common man, hedge funds pool investors' money and then invest in generally
high-yield instruments.
Without much oversight, pretty much anything goes - financially speaking - when it comes to
this investing, according to the SEC, including speculative practices like leveraging that can
amp up the risk of big losses. All such funds have high investment minimums - at least $1
million in many cases - that keep them in the domain of accredited investors legally allowed to
play their investments close to the chest. Many now are becoming part of retirement funds.
The SEC estimates that hedge fund assets have exploded 15-fold since 1993. A Factiva search
of "hedge funds" turned up 30,720 media mentions in the 36 months from January 2000
through December 2002, but 34,201 mentions in just the last 19 months. Still, hedge funds
seem secretive to the public, says one financial expert, and even to the business media.
"I think there's a perception by the general public that hedge funds are opaque, secretive, and
mysterious," says George Lucaci, MD of capital markets at hedgefund.net, a web source for
hedge fund news and performance data. "And unfortunately, the media has propagated that
myth."
"There are rules to how much you can say and when, so they have not traditionally done
[Public Relations]," says Howard Zar, IR partner at Porter Novelli, of hedge fund managers.
How, then, do the funds promote themselves? They do, in fact, find ways to use Public
Relations - though staying in the bounds of the law is tricky. And if proposed rules by the SEC
are passed, they might be using financial public relations firms even more.
Promotional tactics
The promotion of hedge funds is different from other financial public relations efforts and it
Page 69 of 193

demands one rule of thumb, really: They can't advertise or engage in general solicitation.
Because only accredited investors can come on board, usually hedge fund managers seek out
investors among people they know - family, friends, colleagues - and wealthy people, as well
as institutional investors.
Still, hedge funds can take two approaches to, in a roundabout way, promoting themselves.
Hedge funds can publicize the expertise of their portfolio managers if they also manage other
registered products. Those managers can talk up the company and the registered products they just can't talk about any hedge funds the company maintains. "One of the things you
often find in hedge funds is people who have a lot of expertise," says Zar. "So they can speak as
experts and gain exposure for themselves."
A company also can promote registered products that are similar in management to the hedge
funds - but, again, it is not allowed to talk about the hedge funds themselves.
Richard Dukas, President of Richard Dukas Communications, a financial public relations firm
that advises hedge funds, gives an example of these promotional approaches in action. A
hedge fund manager his firm counsels, Keller DiLeo Cohen & Co., has about $500 million
under management. It also handles M&A arbitrage, and its CIO is an expert in M&A. When
speculation over a merger between Disney and Comcast swirled in June, Dukas' PR firm
touted the CIO to the media for his expertise in M&A. Media reports involving the CIO noted
that he worked for a hedge fund manager, and the reports named the firm.
But the key, as Dukas and others point out, is that the hedge fund itself, such as its strategy
and performance, was never promoted - only the expertise of its CIO.
This promotion has a two-fold effect. The manager's name is out there, raising visibility and
credibility for the hedge fund, Dukas says, and it also bolsters the fund's reputation with
existing and potential investors.
But one problem with this approach is the subjective nature of whether a company slides into
promoting the hedge fund. Promotion, in this case, is like the classic definition of obscenity:
People know it when they see it. The SEC does not define what it means by "general
solicitation" or "advertising." And what those terms mean to different hedge fund
professionals seems to vary.
"There's no prohibition: Thou shalt not be quoted," says Michael Robinson, director of Levick
Strategic Communications in Washington, DC, and a former public affairs director at the SEC.
"But you have to be careful what you say."
Without clear guidelines, hedge funds must make their way carefully. "There's not a
uniformity of opinion here, but as a general rule, all of these interests and funds are privately
placed," says Eliot Raffkind, a partner at Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, a law firm based
in Dallas and New York that works with hedge funds. "There are no sort of black-line tests
here under existing laws. So the question is, at what point are you giving so much
information to a reporter that you're engaging in general solicitation or advertising? My view
is you shouldn't be mentioning the name of your fund; you shouldn't give any of the specifics
of the fund."
Page 70 of 193

Financial Public Relations, Financial PR, Financial Services PRTo contact Richard Dukas
regarding financial public relations or hedge fund PR services or to answer any questions you
may have you may email him at Richard@DukasPR.com or visit his website at
http://DukasPR.com. This article was first published here by Tom Acitelli.

Page 71 of 193

Financial Advisor Marketing Differences Q & A
Today I received this question from a New York based hedge fund marketer.
Question: When marketing to financial advisors for your hedge fund, what necessary steps
do you need to take dealing with these guys? Is it any different dealing with family offices?
Answer: Marketing to financial advisors is much different than marketing to single and
multi-family offices. Here are the main differences between the two that I have noticed:
1) Family offices have more established due diligence procedures, often involving
consultants or internal analysts that do nothing but look at hedge funds or alternative
investment products.
2) Financial advisors have lower minimum asset levels for what they will consider
investing. 90% of family offices only seriously consider investing in hedge funds with at
least $75M-$100M, and many require $250-$300M or even $1B in assets under
management.
3) Family offices are more tight-lipped. It will take more effort to develop a relationship,
meet in person, and get clear feedback on why (or why not) a hedge fund is a good fit
for what they are looking for.
4) Family offices are harder to identify in the first place. Financial advisors are easier to
find, as there are more of them and they advertise more openly. Some family offices
advertise, but many stay below the radar and some purposefully don't even have a
website.
5) While family offices service to high net worth investors almost exclusively many
financial advisors work with a broad spectrum of client types - this might require more
caution by them and your fund in marketing products to them. It might also mean
sorting through more financial advisors to find one with several HNW clients.
6) In my experience financial advisors seem much more sensitive and motivated by how
they will earn a commission or income from the transaction whereas many family
offices charge rich enough fees that this is less of an issue.
7) While some financial advisors may take 16-24 months to really get "on board" with a
relevant hedge fund manager, understand your investment process, and possibly
invest, most will come to terms a bit before then. Family offices on the other hand often
take 18-24 months just to complete their due diligence and committee meetings. It is a
very long sales process.
8) Both family offices and financial advisors require genuine relationship-building efforts
and tenacity
9) From a legal standpoint there may be other precautions your fund should take but I am
not a legal expert so I can't provide any guidance in that space.

Page 72 of 193

Raising Capital - Clues for Success
A recent article in the Investment Management Weekly discussed what hedge funds need to
do to continue raising capital from institutional investors. The general view of the whitepaper
they produced suggested that hedge funds will need to continue to adapt their business
models and approach to communicating their investment process to the interests and concern
of institutional investors if their strong growth in raising capital is to continue.
Paul Schaeffer, the managing director of strategy and innovation for SEI was quoted as saying,
“The hedge fund industry must recognize that the large institutions have a distinct set of
demands concerning issues such as the quality of infrastructure, transparency, and risk.”
Some of the stated differences in raising capital from institutional investors instead of high
net worth investors included:
* More attention is sometimes initially paid to strategy offered than the individual hedge
fund managers
* Longer hedge fund due diligence processes and investment horizon
* More heavy utilization of outside consultants to help evaluate hedge fund managers
* Growing concern over hedge fund risk management and “headline risk”
* Strong preferences for transparency of the hedge funds investment process and tools
applied to it
* More likely to invest in $100M+ or $500M+ hedge funds vs. smaller boutique shops
I think the most interesting part of this article was the fact that it reported that over 85% of
those interviewed said they would not invest in a strategy that they don’t fully understand,
and 80% said it was critical for managers to focus on the fund’s original strategies.

Page 73 of 193

Third Party Marketing (3PM) Definition
Third party marketing is a type of consulting service offered by consultants to hedge fund
managers. These consultants help hedge funds raise their assets under management by
introducing them to new investors. The types of services that hedge fund third party
marketing firms offer can include:
1. Fully outsourced marketing and sales services
2. Channel or geographically specific marketing efforts
3. Creation of marketing materials including a full PowerPoint presentation, one
page marketing piece
4. Assistance in developing a standard RFP and populating major hedge fund
database
5. Representation at industry social events, conferences and private dinner parties
6. Advice on how to best move forward in a diverse range of capital raising channels
7. Public relations & media consultation as needed
There are as many types of third party marketing agreements in the hedge fund industry as
there are third party marketers, but most of the value provided to hedge fund clients is
through one of the activities listed above.

Page 74 of 193

Start A Hedge Fund Related Newsletter
Though most people use email, few firms in the hedge fund industry provide a consistent
weekly, monthly, or even quarterly email newsletter. Reason being: it takes a little bit of trial
and error and some consistent work to produce the fresh content for each new issue.
Providing an email newsletter can present a competitive advantage for your firm as you are
able to keep on top of minds of prospects, be seen as a thought leader in your space, have your
newsletter forwarded on to other prospects, and show your level of niche expertise. I have
found my email newsletter to be the best way to keep in touch with everyone that I have met
through this hedge fund blog, my Hedge Fund Book, and the Hedge Fund Group (HFG).
One of the leading email newsletter management firms is Aweber. Aweber is used by over
1,000 firms worldwide. I have been satisfied with their easy-to-use service and quick online
customer service. It is relatively easy to get started. After playing around with settings for 2030 minutes, most people would be ready to test out their own email newsletter using one of
their templates or simply using traditional plain text formatting.
Please recall that certain restrictions apply to email advertisements or newsletters if you are a
hedge fund manager or offer certain types of investment advice, recommendations, etc. Please
consult a legal expert or in-house compliance counsel for advice before starting your email
campaign.

Page 75 of 193

Third Party Marketing Due Diligence
Hedge funds conducting due diligence on a third party marketing firm should always ask
questions about the firm and their employees. Evaluating a potential marketer should be as
rigorous as completing a RFP for an institutional consultant. A partnership is being formed,
and investing time and money with the wrong professionals can be expensive in terms of real
dollars and opportunity costs.
Areas to cover while conducting due diligence on a third party marketer include:
* Past work experience
* Current licensing and broker check
* Asset raising history throughout their careers
* Asset raising track record while working together in the firm
* Referrals from past hedge fund clients
* Number of years experience
* Scope of their distribution channel expertise
* Number of total current clients
* Potential commitment of time in terms of hours per week and duration of the contract
* Personality and culture of the third party marketing group
At the same time, third party marketers need to perform due diligence on a potential client. If
a hedge fund manager has a poor reputation, it could reflect poorly on the marketer that is
doing the promoting.

Page 76 of 193

Press Release Contacts
A few years ago, I knew nothing about press releases. Realistically, today, I still couldn't hold a
candle to the knowledge of a public relations professional, but I have learned a lot. One thing I
learned was that it can cost a lot of money to obtain contact details for magazines,
newspapers, and radio stations. You can get them for free. You can spreadsheets stuffed with
media contact details posted on public websites all over the internet.
You can find these by searching for Excel spreadsheets using Google. Try typing in "pr media
contacts filetype:xls " in the Google search field. Your first result should be a list of media
contacts.
I performed over 300 of these Google searches and compiled a database of over 20,000
potential press release contacts at major newspapers, magazines, radio stations, and television
stations.
Is this ethical? I always ask myself two questions to figure out if my actions are ethical or not.
1. Would I mind if my actions were put on display in the NY Times?
2. Would I mind if I was on the receiving end of the action I am about to take
In this case, I would not mind if the NY Times wrote up an article on this tactic and I only
intend to contact these media stations and outlets if I have a relevant press release for them.
Why am I sharing this knowledge? Isn't having this list of 20,000 media contacts valuable to
keep to myself? Knowing how to do something is much different than going through the dozen
hours of work it would take to re-create this process. I hope I can help out a company I work
for or a friend with a PR campaign some day with the work I did to create the list. Let me
know if you are potentially that person.
 For the basics on writing a press release please see:
http://www.publicityinsider.com/release.asp
 For press release newswire services see http://www.PRNewsWire.com
 To search for other filetypes simply add "filetype:txt" or "filetype:ppt" etc. into the
search field on Google.

Page 77 of 193

Hedge Fund Relationship Building
The best part about writing in this blog is getting 30-50 emails a day from hedge fund
professionals, investors and students in finance. One of the most frequent questions I get is
"can you help our hedge fund raise capital from new investors?" I usually refer these people
on to others as the firm I am with already has our hands full in raising capital right now for a
set number of funds. One piece of advice relevant to everyone though is mentioned here at
MajorGiftsGuru.com.
Tom quotes Woody Allen's great saying: "80% of success in life is simply showing up." Show
up at your local hedge fund association meetings and conferences. Meet face-to-face with
local financial advisors, institutional consultants and foundations. We are looking for
something more out of our jobs than a simple paycheck and if your fund offers something in
the parameters of what they are allowed to choose, they might choose your product simply
because of your relationship.
My favorite sales author, Jeffrey Gitomer, always says that “All things equal, people like to do
business with their friends. All things not being equal, people still like to do business with
their friends." My quick advice to most funds is to make sure your compliance details are in
order and then start showing up everywhere you can to start building long-term multi-year
relationships in the industry.

Page 78 of 193

Sales Phone Call Tips
I make an average of 25 sales phone calls every day. I often call 40-60 people. On other days I
might only reach out to about 10. What is interesting about making all of these phone calls is
listening to how different people sound and react during these conversations.
I am writing this blog entry because today I called someone who was unqualified. It turned
out that their company didn't even provide the type of service I was hoping to discuss. I made
a joke about sending him a personal check or PayPal payment to provide me with the type of
contact I needed to connect with and it worked. I was not trying to be manipulative by forcing
myself to be funny to get information. I simply made a dumb joke.
Even after this was obvious, this individual asked me what I needed and ended up connecting
me with a very valuable contact. He also asked where I lived, where I grew up, and if I had a
wife or any kids. I was shocked after I hung up. In 8 months of making over 600 phone calls, I
have never once had someone be so friendly and upfront like that. It was a refreshing change
from the monotone burnt-out tone of voice I usually end up listening to. What is important is
not what happened during this phone but after; I realized how valuable of a contact he had
given me. I felt strongly obligated to thank him or re-pay him in some way.
This has taught me to always see the humor in situations and give value away freely to those in
need of help. One un-related sales phone call lesson I have learned is that if you have highly
qualified the end person that you are trying to reach they will be happy to talk to you because
your service is relevant to them and necessary for their success.

Page 79 of 193

9 Fund of Hedge Fund Database Tips
Purchasing a fund of hedge fund database is not as simple as you might think. If you need a
list of hedge fund of funds or are thinking of purchasing a fund of hedge fund directory or
database I have a good deal of experience in this area. The following are my top 9 tips for
finding hedge fund of funds and directories:
1. Take the time to call or at least email the firm who offers a fund of hedge fund
database. These will sometimes be referred to as fund of hedge fund or fund of fund
directories.
2. Only work with well-known, reputable firms that specialize in providing hedge fund
databases or hedge fund of fund databases. Avoid small shop, fly-by-nighters at all
costs.
3. Take the time to really get familiar with the information provided in the database. Ask
for a sample of what the information will look like. It really is an investment that could
save you literally thousands of hours if you pick the right hedge fund database for your
business model.
4. Ensure that the database is updated at least once a quarter. Contact details and firm
information gets old very quickly.
5. Expect to pay $750-$3,000 for a high quality hedge fund database. Many cost around
$1,800 while others can cost up to $30,000/year. Be sure to know the trade-offs of
buying a physical database versus subscribing to one online. If you don't have a hard
copy of the data in Excel or Access format you may not be able to use it once a timebased subscription expires. For some firms this is fine. For others, it could be a costly
mistake.
6. Make sure the hedge fund database you use is compatible with your systems. Do you
use SalesForce? Act? Goldmine? Excel? Word?
7. While you are kicking the tires of your potential new hedge fund database, make sure it
has complete information on a firm. You don’t want to call a firm asking if you can send
over your PowerPoint presentation only to find out they are really a competitor or a
division in another firm you called that same day.
8. Don’t steal a database. This may sound obvious, but it is common for employees to
copy parts of a database for later use, or use some other un-ethical means of obtaining
database details. Don’t; it is not worth it. Always take the high road and you can stand
behind every action you have ever taken.
9. This list only contains 9 tips instead of 10 because this one is worth more than the rest
combined. Ask hard questions when you are buying fund of hedge fund database. Ask
how often your database details will be updated. Ask exactly how many hedge funds are
updating their information. Some databases will say that they have details on 9,000
hedge funds while the reality is that some of them haven't updated their information in
4 years. Ensure all of the data is being updated at least once a year.
Page 80 of 193

Motivational Sales Quotes
I am creating this blog entry to capture all of the best sales quotes that I hear while reading
books and having discussions with other sales professionals. I will be updating this blog at
least once a month with new entries...let me know if you have any great ones. You might see a
lot of quotes from Jeffrey Gitomer. He was my inspiration in writing my first book and I will
get to meet him this September when he comes to Boston for a seminar workshop.
"The Harder I work the Luckier I get"
“Every morning in Africa a gazelle wakes up. It knows it must run faster than the fastest lion
or it will be killed. Every morning a lion wakes up. It knows it must outrun the slowest
gazelle or it will starve to death. It doesn't matter whether you are a lion or a gazelle -- when
the sun comes up, you had better be running.”
The key is not to "call the decision maker." The key is to "have the decision maker call you."
- Jeffrey Gitomer
Master the web and you will master your universe - and your (on-line) bank account."
- Jeffrey Gitomer
When you begin to give value to the world, somehow the people you affect will find a way to
tell you. Even if it takes a couple of years.
- Jeffrey Gitomer
"Writing is a key differentiator. I've used it for 14 years. Writing will not just lead to
differentiation. Writing is the credibility you need to create buyer confidence"
- Jeffrey Gitomer
"Your job is to meet the right people and read the right books"
- Jeffrey Gitomer

Page 81 of 193

Using White Papers in Sales
Many sales books and prospects alike say that white papers can help engage potential
customers and provide value first while also positioning yourself as an expert in your field. If
this is true why aren't there more white papers on your industry?
1.
2.
3.
4.

Most people aren't great writers.
Most people don't see the value in writing and sharing expertise.
Most people don't believe they have time to write.
Some people who are technically qualified on writing white papers aren't experts in
marketing and sales so they may not get their work widely distributed.
5. Maybe there are many white papers out there and you haven't seen them yet. First, use
Google to make some niche specific searches to see what your competitors have
written.
6. Develop unique content and insights for your white paper, but borrow the nontrademarked or copyrighted styling and organizational best practices of the white
papers you find for your own use.
This is great news for you. If you are willing to do the hard work you can stand out as an
expert and you will in fact become an expert learning more about specific niche topics than
many of your competitors.
What is a White Paper? White papers are opinion pieces that educate, state a position,
suggest a solution to a problem, or introduce a new technology or process.
Components of a White Paper:
* Abstract
* Problem Description (2-3 paragraphs)
* New class of products
* Product's use in solving the problem
* Conclusion
White Paper Writing Tips:
* If you don't engage the reader in the first paragraph they will never read the rest of your
white paper.
* Focus on pains of the reader, describe those pains and explain the further consequences of
the current state of business. This will help you connect with the qualified prospects that
you are targeting.
* Focus on education and not self-serving press release information
* Write objectively use facts, quotes, statistics, and surveys where possible
* Keep your white paper to between 3-4,000 words. 2,000 words seems too skimpy
sometimes, and anything longer most people won't read.

Page 82 of 193

Financial PR Tips for Hedge Funds
I read a recent article by Bill Blasé in the Emerging Manager Monthly Newsletter. Here are
the tips that I gleaned from this article:
 TV viewers and interviewers love contrarians, conflicting views make for interesting
television
 Take a pass on issues where you are not an expert and don’t have any value-added
insight on the issue
 Media appearances might not bring in a windfall of new business but a well
coordinated PR plan combined with grass roots relationship develop and an online
presence can be very effective
 Michael Barron who is the CEO of Knott Capital Management commented in the
article, “Everyone knows the Fidelitys, the Putnams and the rest of the larger firms in
our industry. For some of the smaller firms, this is away you can build recognition and
credibility.”
 Ignore the monitor and the audience, imagine speaking to a single viewer
 Maintain eye contact with the interviewer and not the camera
 Speak slowly and match the interviewers tone and pace
 Short brief 30 second sound bites are ideal for TV appearances

Page 83 of 193

Marketing + Creativity
This chapter presents concise practical methods to help you become more creative. It will
cover the creative process and while also suggesting 6.2 practical tools to increase your
creative abilities. This chapter uses scientific research studies and direct knowledge from
marketing and sales professionals to help you differentiate yourself and your product or
service.
Why Study Creativity?
Psychology experts, innovation consultants, and sales professionals all agree on one thing, you
can learn to be creative. Most people would agree on a scale of 1-10 that the value of creativity
would be rated as an 8, 9, or 10. If asked how creative you are how would you rate yourself?
How would your co-workers rate you? (Gitomer, 2004). Research studies have noted that in a
group of 20 people only 2-3 participants will say they are a creative person yet this is a
learnable skill that virtually everyone values.
Around 10% of us see ourselves as creative, and even those few individuals report a general
inability to be highly creative during the 9-5 workday (Mostert, 2007). Part of this problem
might be that the extrinsic demands and pace of work does not allow your brain time to look
at the big picture and ponder on large challenges at work. This chapter will help you come up
with more creative ideas and enable you to discover and refine those ideas faster than you
could before.
Psychologists distinguish between two types of thinking: divergent and convergent. Divergent
thinking is generally thought of as being closely related to creativity with thoughts diverging
into a wide variety of topics or associations. Convergent thinking brings together information
focusing on a problem that usually has just one correct solution. The stages of creativity
include preparation, incubation, illumination, evaluation, and elaboration. The ability to think
in both convergent and divergent fashions is required to maximize the value of your new ideas
(Carson, 2007). Switching between convergent and divergent modes of thinking is not easy for
most people, but creative aides such as the creative tools suggested below can make the
process easier (Parnes, 1975).
Creativity Tools
Highly creative people make more remote associations and come up with more unique
solutions that the average person (Gruszka, 2002). These creativity tools can help increase the
number of remote associations you make, direct your thinking, save you time, and add value
to the final solution you choose to address a challenge. This list of tools is not original or
exhaustive but it is valuable as a starting point for increasing your creative abilities as an
investment marketing professional.
The tools in this chapter include:
1. Hiring and Managing for Creativity
2. Enhancing Creativity
3. SCAMPER
4. Idea Quota

Page 84 of 193

5. Mind Mapping
6. Future Fruit
6.2 Sharpen Your Saw
Creativity Tool #1: Hiring and Managing for Creativity
One way to enhance creativity at your firm is hiring creative people. Common traits among
highly creative people include intelligence, intellectual curiosity and preference for
complexity, novelty-seeking, unconventionality, absorption in work, assertiveness, drive,
self- assuredness, and perseverance. This list of traits can be used to either identify people
who are more likely to be creative than the average person.
Once hired, the most effective way to increase each employee’s creativity is to let them work
on something they love. Research has shown that intrinsic motivation seems to be highly
correlated with a high creativity output (Carson, 2007). Part of their job description should
be written by the employee it governs and directs. Allow them to seek out solutions to
company or industry challenges that are intrinsically rewarding (Sternberg, 1998). A great
example of this idea in practice is Google. This firm allows each and every employ spend
20% of their work week on innovative product, customer service, and sales ideas. This has
provided the company with a hard to replicated competitive advantage.
Creativity Tool #2: Enhancing Creativity
There are 9 scientifically grounded factors in enhancing creative achievement. These include:
1) Purpose
2) Basic skills
3) Domain-specific-knowledge
4) Curiosity
5) Motivation
6) Self-confidence
7) Willingness to take risks
8) Self competition
9) Creativity aides
Not all of these must be present and they are not of equal importance but each usually plays
a role and can contribute to creative results (Sternberg, 1998).
Jeffrey Gitomer is an internationally-recognized sales expert and author. His research and
feedback does not come from controlled scientific studies but from trial and error. He was
able to perfect his selling techniques while toiling as a low level sales associate for years
before his hard work and creative selling techniques earned him millions of dollars as a sales
executive and eventually CEO. He has trained thousands of sales professionals on
implementing his creative methods of selling. His following 13.5 elements are important
factors in your creative success:
1) Brains
2) Positive Attitude
3) Observing
4) Collecting Ideas
Page 85 of 193

5) Self Belief
6) Support Systems
7) Creative Environments
8) Creative Mentors and Associations
9) Studying Creativity
10) Studying the History of Creativity in your Industry
11) Using Creative Models
12) Open to Risking Failure
13) Seeing Your Creativity in Action
13.5) The Ridicule
Factor (Gitomer, 2004)
All 13.5 of these elements directly tie into at least one of the 9 scientifically researched
methods of creativity enhancement; confirming that the scientific research on this subject is
very relevant to investment marketing and sales professionals in the field. Many of these
factors of creativity mentioned by both Sternberg and Gitomer can be changed and
addressed individually to increase your creative potential.
Equally as important as enhancing creativity is identifying feelings or processes that may
limit creative results. Research shows that the following can block creativity: fear of failure,
fear of success, guilt, shame, overcoming fantasies, stubbornness, fear of loneliness, and
identify issues (Bernard Golden, 2007 as referenced by Carson, 2007).
“Seeing a great idea is one thing – HAVING a great idea is
another. Big difference between the guy that invented a pet rock
and the guy that bought one. One (the inventor) is a lot more
fulfilled (wealthier) than the purchaser.”
- Jeffrey Gitomer
Creativity Tool #3: SCAMPER
One of the most widely used creativity aides is SCAMPER. SCAMPER stands for
Substitution, Combination, Adaptation, Modification, Putting to other uses, Elimination,
and Rearrangement. This is a list of different ways you can think about a challenging
problem in order to come up with new possible solutions. To use this tool, identify a
significant problem that you are facing and apply SCAMPER questions to each step or small
module of the problem to see what new ideas you can come up with (Michalko, 2006).
In his bestselling book, Thinkertoys, Michael Michalko provides a list of questions for
investment marketing professionals who want to use this technique. Consider the task for
revamping your overall selling techniques. First, you should break up the topic of selling
techniques into 5-6 parts, one of which might be focused exclusively on prospecting. Some
SCAMPER questions that might help you come up with new prospecting methods could
include:
1. What procedure can I Substitute for my current one?
2. How can I Combine prospecting with some other procedure?
3. What can I Adapt or copy from someone else’s prospecting methods?
Page 86 of 193

4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

What can I Modify or alter the way I prospect?
How can I put my Prospecting to other uses?
What can I Eliminate from the way I prospect?
What is the Reverse of prospecting?
What Rearrangement of prospecting procedures might be better?

* (Michalko, 2006)
Creativity Tool #4: Idea Quota
Use this tool to tackle your challenges and give your brain a workout every day. Thomas
Edison and his employees were always working with quotas. Thomas Edison held over 1,000
patents, his quota was to register a new minor patent every 10 days and major patent every
six months. Identify the one problem that you would like to have solved in the next 3 weeks.
Next, set a quota of writing down a minimum of three new potential solutions to this
challenge each day.
This forces you to do three things. First it concentrates you on what is most important on a
daily basis. Second it forces you to come up with possible solutions while you are in
different moods, thought patterns, and possibly environments. Third, if you allow yourself
to freely write down ideas as they come, it should produce potential solutions that build on
previous ideas and would have been difficult to discover without a structured process
(Michalko, 2006).
Creativity Tool #5: Mind Mapping
Mind Mapping is a graphical technique that represents how your mind organizes
information that relates to problem solving. As a creativity tool it may allow you to see the
where possible gaps or possible new associations exist. The Mindmap is just for you so it
doesn’t matter if the relationships between items are confusing to others who view it. As
long as you can make sense of it than it serves it purpose.
4 Steps to Mind Mapping:
1. Identify a problem you are facing and are having trouble solving.
2. Map out your thoughts and current insights on the problem. Focus only on
keywords that will help you remember the main ideas that your mind focuses on.
3. Take the point of a critic, analyze and study your map. If no ideas come to mind put
it away for two days and come back to it. If you do this a couple of times you will
usually
experience a moment of insight.
4. Focus on that piece of insight until it develops into a complete idea (Michalko, 2006)
Below is an example of a mind map that a Vice President of a light bulb company drew. He
diagrammed the system of 4,000 distributors that his firm worked with as it appeared in his
head.
This map showed him where more information might be needed and also where
opportunities might exist. This led him to think about his business in many new ways and
helped him form his breakthrough idea: energy management. A new division of the
Page 87 of 193

company was created around this theme and it led to a huge increase in sales. The Vice
President later remarked, “The map led to a cascade of ideas that motivated us to act and
create a whole new division” (Michalko, 2006).
Creativity Tool #6: Future Fruit
“In peace prepare for war. In war prepare for
peace.”
- Sun
Tsu
In Thinkertoys, Michalko suggests thinking of future profits as future fruit. You should have
several alternative plans for the future based on a number of probable and improbable events.
Having only one possible outcome of events planned for is like planting only one strawberry.
The weather could get too hot, someone could come eat your strawberry, or your strawberry
could become diseased. If you plant multiple fields of strawberries you will reap a harvest.
5 Steps to Future Fruit:
1. Identify a particular problem in your investment marketing business
2. State a specific decision that you will have to make
3. Break down what forces will have an impact on the decision. These could
include economic, technological, product lines, competition, regulatory, etc.
4. Build five scenarios with drastically different outcomes by varying the effects of each
of the major forces of influence.
5. Identify business opportunities in each scenario you create and explore the links
of opportunities you identify across different scenarios (Michalko, 2006).
Creativity Tool #6.2: Sharpen Your Saw
Creativity can be learned, become a student of it. Create a one page cheat sheet for creativity
tools and other process improvement tips that describes each lesson in 1-2 sentences. This
will help you integrate best practices and new methods of thinking and acting into your daily
life. Laminate 5 copies of this piece of paper for your desk, bathroom mirror, shower, and
anywhere else you consistently spend time so you will be reminded of them.
Summary
“Imagination is more important than knowledge.”
Albert Einstein
The tools listed above attempt to maximize your creative abilities through sparking
divergent thinking and revealing remote associations that might lead to new valuable
investment marketing ideas. To become more creative identify which areas of creativity
enhancement you should be working on, identify current blocks to your creativity, try using
a few of the tools and see which ones work well for you, and become a student of creativity.

Page 88 of 193

References
Allocca, M. A., & Kessler, E. H. (2006). Innovation speed in small and medium-sized
enterprises. Creativity & Innovation Management, 15(3), 279-295.
Carson, S. P. (2007). Psychology of creativity professor Harvard Extension School.
Gitomer, J. (2004). Creativity and selling. The little red book of selling (1st Edition ed.,
pp.
150). Austin, TX: Bard Press.
Gruszka, A., & Necka, E. (2002). Priming and acceptance of close and remote associations by
creative and less creative people. Creativity Research Journal,
Michalko, M. (Ed.). (2006). Thinkertoys. Berkeley, CA: Ten Speed Press.
Mostert, N. M. (2007). Diversity of the mind as the key to successful creativity at Unilever.
Creativity & Innovation Management, 16(1), 93-100.
Napier, N. K., & Nilsson, M. (2006). The development of creative capabilities in and out of
creative organizations: Three case studies. Creativity & Innovation Management, 15(3), 268278.
Napier, N. K., & Nilsson, M. (2006). The development of creative capabilities in and out of
creative organizations: Three case studies. Creativity & Innovation Management, 15(3), 268278.
Parnes, S., & Bondi, A. (1975). Creative behavior: A delicate balance. Journal of Creative
Behavior, 9, 149-158.
Rickards, T., & Moger, S. (2006). Creative leaders: A decade of contributions from creativity
and innovation management journal. Creativity & Innovation Management, 15(1), 4-18.
Sternberg, J. R. (Ed.). (1998). Handbook of creativity
Tassoul, M., & Buijs, J. (2007). Clustering: An essential step from diverging to converging.
Creativity & Innovation Management, 16(1), 16-26.

Page 89 of 193

Hedge Fund Capital Introduction
Capital introduction is usually the phrase that refers to the introductions that prime brokerage
houses will make on behalf of their money managers to help raise their assets under
management. Some prime brokerage houses will have several capital introduction
professionals in house or a whole team dedicated to the work. The prime broker gets paid
through trades made by the manager, so the more assets they have under management the
more they will get paid each quarter on those larger trades.
Most capital introduction professionals are paid on salary and bonus on overall trading
activity and not on earning a percentage of fees from assets raised like a third party marketer.
Capital introduction services have came under some scrutiny lately and there are talks of it
going away completely due to a conflict of interests.
If you are looking for a prime broker, capital introduction, or third party marketing services
let me know and I can help you network and find a group that might work well for your
situation.

Page 90 of 193

Hedge Fund Investor Types
Sometimes I get to speak with other third party marketers and hedge fund marketing
professionals about their experiences in working with hedge fund investors. What I find is
that in general, most marketers’ experiences are very similar. Each investor is different, just as
each due diligence process in different firms will vary. Hedge fund investors typically fall into
one of these four categories:
The “Follow Me” Hedge Fund Investor
Most of these investors make up your pool of family, friends, co-workers, and people you
interact with regularly. Usually, these people don’t understand how to perform the
necessary due diligence in making a decision to invest. This group also tends to make
assumptions. For example, if a manager holds a degree from Harvard or has experience
from a top financial firm, this aspect alone would persuade investors to follow suit ignoring
the probability of fraud. In addition, they heavily rely on personal acquaintance and
recommendations from either you or someone you may know. If you ask for a check, and
they trust you, this group will most likely give one to you.
The “Send Me a Prospectus” Hedge Fund Investor
This group is a bit more sophisticated by conducting a minimum amount of due diligence
into the manager’s performance. Once they are satisfied with the performance on paper,
they will meet with and usually shower the manager with questions regarding every aspect
of the fund, including returns, performance, strategies, and risks. What is written and
spoken by the manager is taken into faith and the information is not properly verified by
the investor.
The “Investigating” Hedge Fund Investor
This type of investor is sometimes considered a nuisance by busy professionals who might
caught off-guard by their questions. Not only will the investor keep the manager’s number
on speed dial, the investor will perform the due diligence above and beyond the type
mentioned above and also go far as to understanding the entire operation of the fund as if
he or she were the manager. This type would also interview members of the manager’s staff.
The investor would also look into the balance sheet, cash controls, reporting, and other
functions, not directly related to performance. Nuisance?
The “Independent” Hedge Fund Investor
The due diligence collected by this investor is thoroughly reviewed independently.
Investors in this category know that independent opinions are extremely important. They
will contact the auditor, custodian and administrator in addition to the SEC and/or state
securities agency. They won’t sign on the dotted line until they are satisfied independently
verifying everything that matters, including, assets under management, returns, and even a
yearend audit. They fully understand the risks that are involved.
Nobody likes to be put in a box, but it is important to realize that the types of investors can
vary widely so the array of marketing materials you have should include brief one pagers to
very detailed institutional-quality PowerPoint presentations and third party analysis for those
most scrutinizing parties. My experience has been that marketing material first built to the
highest standard and then summarized into smaller "dumbed down" pieces later can be very
effective and versatile.
Page 91 of 193

Raising Capital with Tenacity
Why do most salespeople fail in hedge fund sales? Here's one take:
* 44% of all salespeople quit trying after the first call
* 24% quit after the second call
* 14% quit after the third call
* 12% quit trying to sell their prospect after the fourth call
This means 94% of salespeople quit before the fifth phone call while 60% of all sales are made
after the fourth call. This means that the overwhelming majority of hedge fund salespeople
probably don't even give themselves a shot at selling their products.
(Source: Herbert True, a marketing researcher at Notre Dame University)
Mid-day Update: Funny story, I wrote this post at 6AM this morning. I just got back from
lunch and caught a call back from a financial advisor I have emailed once and left 5 voicemails
for over the past 6 months. I had heard nothing and now he is interested in investing in one of
our products. Tenacity paid off this time around.

Page 92 of 193

Cold Calling Tips and Advice
1. Don't ask the prospect "How are you doing?" You don't care how they are. If you, cared you
would have done some research on the company first and you would have something more
intelligent to ask them. This might sound harsh but it is true. Do your homework first.
2. Keep in mind that thousands of people cold call and several people are probably calling the
same or very similar prospects as the ones you are approaching. Everyone plays the number
game and it is natural to not have your calls or emails returned. The goal is to develop enough
perceived value so they will take your call the next time or call you when they are ready to buy
your product or service.
3. Shoot for 30-80 phone calls a day. More is not always better but trying to do 6-10 calls an
hour will keep you on your toes and always dialing more prospects. Create a game out of the
process.
4. Smile while you dial. The tone of your voice and word choice both change based on your
own feelings and facial expressions. Be happy and love your job and the people on the other
end of the phone will take notice.
5. Call the CEO. Always call the CEO. They are the masters of every other department and if a
call or email gets forwarded from them down to a VP or Dept. manager it is much more likely
to get responded to then coming in through an analyst or associate with the firm.
6. Set the table. This is a point Brian Tracy makes in the book, "Eat That Frog." Sit down every
night and take 20 minutes to plan out your work for the next day. Break the day into 30
minute sessions of complete focus completing your most important tasks before most people
even get to work in the morning.
7. Prepare a standard email that you send out before you call. Anyone can send a great follow
up email to a phone call; the trick is getting the prospect on the phone in the first place. Don't
have them not take your call because they do not know who you are. Email the prospect
introducing yourself and why you would like to have a 5 minute conversation in 3-5 sentences
or less and call 10 minutes after sending the email out.

Page 93 of 193

How to Have a Positive Attitude
Today, I had one of my best investment sales days ever. I found over a dozen strong leads and
possibly landed a couple of new investors for the fund that I am promoting. Why did this
happen? Earlier this week my boss had been traveling and my I felt like I wasn't getting
anywhere. I completely changed my attitude and now the opportunities in front of me at work
are almost overwhelming.
I have studied in my Psychology of Influence class at Harvard that negative thoughts can
block creative or even mundane solutions to challenges we face every day. I have also
discovered that the unconscious part of our brain grinds away on problems that we are
facing and know we have to conquer.
Scientific studies have shown that successful professional athletes use more positive selftalk than non-professional athletes. In one of Jeffrey Gitomer's books he talks about seeking
mentors early on in his sales career. One employee at his company had only started working
in the industry 1 year ago and was the company's second best salesman in a group of more
than 200 people. Gitomer asked him how he did and he said that one thing he did
differently from everyone else was to tell himself more than 100 times a day, "I am the best.
I am the best. I am the best..."
I don't believe that simply saying these words will make you the top salesman at your
company, but I do believe that having that strong of a positive attitude improves all of your
relationships. Your positive self-talk will assist you in coming up with creative, win-win
solutions on the fly.
Here is how I try to have a positive attitude:
 I have several 3-4 minute motivational podcasts or audio book clips on my iPod that
I can listen to on the way to work.
 I workout at least 3 times a week.
 I read 15 pages of attitude changing articles or books every morning while I am
eating breakfast. (See Jeffrey Gitomer's Little Yellow Book of YES! Attitude)
 I created a 1-page of the top 50 business and sales lessons I have learned and I have
posted it in my shower, on my bathroom mirror, and behind my desk at work. I do
my
best to read this list twice a day to remind myself of what is important.
 I set BHAGS for myself. BHAGS are Big Hairy Audacious Goals as described by Jim
Collins in Good to Great. My current BHAGS? I want to become THE expert in
investment marketing and sales, run 50 investment websites that rank in the top 3
slots of Google search results, and become a bestselling author.
 I try to find a lesson to be learned from each "negative experience." If nothing else,
a negative experience should always tell you something about yourself.
 I am always learning and exploring something new. It was getting into Harvard and
moving to Boston; now, it is learning all I can about investment marketing and sales,
the psychology of influence, and web marketing. As soon as you stop being curious
and challenged, you become stale and un-motivated.
 I cut off or drastically reduce communication with negative people.
Page 94 of 193

 I don't watch the local news. It is worthless. How often do you see a news story about
a generous church donation, a child winning a science project award, or an organ
donor saving someone's life? Not nearly as often as a plane crash, fire, or robbery. If
you have to get the local news read it online for 5 minutes and save yourself some
time.
I am taking a four month course on Positive Psychology this spring that should be very
interesting. I will be updating this blog with those details as soon as I can. Let me know if you
have any other great tips on keeping positive attitude or using self-talk.

Page 95 of 193

Hedge Fund Outsourcing Trend
Hedge fund outsourcing is growing as competition in the field increases and smaller funds
focus more resources on creating a competitive investment process and growing their assets
through sales and marketing activities. Outsourcing their office space, operational, trading,
accounting, IT, and compliance needs lets small hedge funds act more nimbly and simply
deliver results instead of having each employee wear 4 hats or constantly hire consulting firms
on an on-demand basis.
Hedge Fund Outsourcing Options
I know of one hedge fund outsourcing firm in New York that offers a full suite of trading,
operational, and compliance hedge fund outsourcing services. Let me know if connecting with
them would be helpful for you.

Page 96 of 193

Influence Through Orienting Reflex
One way in which people are influenced everyday is through our orienting reflex. The
orienting reflex is the process we go through while reacting to something novel, new, or
mysterious. It is what makes first dates, roller coasters, and vacations to exotic islands so
enjoyable.
When a loud alarm goes off, we stop and ask ourselves why it is going off and if it has any
effect on us. If you are in the middle of a movie at your local theater and the fire alarm starts
to go off, everyone will look around for a minute before taking action. Each person is orienting
themselves to this new situation and combination of variables and they are looking for
instructions from other people's actions, their past experiences, or some sort of authority,
such as a movie theater employee.
It is at this very moment, while the movie audience is deciding what to do next, that they are
most easily influenced. This same rule applies to changes in stock market conditions and the
reaction of Wall Street analysts and investment news broadcasters.
If you can be the person to suggest a strategy or provide additional credible evidence when
others are still orienting to a new environment you can be very influential very quickly.

Page 97 of 193

Attracting Hedge Fund Investors
I recently received this email:
Richard, I am involved in the management of a new hedge fund that we started last year.
Our hedge fund's strategy is a combination of stock and derivatives. Our goal is 30%+
growth per year, and thus far, we are right on track. What I wanted to ask you is this: Are
these types of earnings competitive in the hedge fund world? If we continue with this kind of
performance, would this type of growth be attractive to third party marketers?
My response:
John,
If you could sustain 20%+ returns over 5, 7, and 10 years and show positive growth during
quarters of negative equity market performance it will help. The incentives in the hedge fund
world favor those that are long-term greedy not quarter-to-quarter or year-by-year short term
greedy.
The trick is consistency. It is better to have a 28% returns for 10 years than 100% returns for
3. You will be attractive to many groups, including some third party marketing firms if you
have a deeply experienced team, understandable and repeatable investment process, solid
returns, good portfolio risk controls and a sound business behind all of this. A recent report
showed that institutional investors look very closely at the risk management controls in place
for both the portfolios being managed and the hedge fund business itself.

Page 98 of 193

Are Your Customers High?
Abstract
In a time where consumers see thousands of advertisements and corporate symbols every day,
this article discusses several components of the highly researched area of drug addiction and
draws parallels use in the world of sales and networking. The bulk of this article is based on
the knowledge and research of Dr. Scott Lukas, Dr. Robert Cialdini, and Dr. Kevin Hogan who
are experts in reward circuitry and the psychology of influence and persuasion. By examining
the way and reasons why we become addicted to substances and activities, we can discover
truths about how the reward circuitry in our brain works and create actionable product
positioning and sales steps towards a more profitable business or successful career.
Introduction
Virtually everyone becomes addicted to something at some point in their lives. Many times, it
is to drugs like nicotine or caffeine, but it can also be to sex or the feelings experienced while
shopping with a group of friends. Our brains are wired to reward positive experiences that
benefit us while minimizing those things that create a negative impact or feelings on our life.
This reward center pathology is at the core of what creates patterns of use that are very
reinforcing and can sometimes lead to negative health consequences or even death. This is
because the brain can become conditioned to desire a certain behavior or substance to the
point where the logical points of ceasing the activity are ignored (Kuhn 2003).
A good analogy for this is imagining your unconscious mind as a jet engine strapped to the
back of your conscious mind, a Mini Cooper. When your unconscious mind fires, it can be
difficult to control the steering or to bring it to a halt. It is not often that experts in sales and
marketing look directly at addiction for clues on how to gain loyal customers. This means that
while most companies profit from our natural reward center pathology, few consciously apply
an ethical yet systematic application of these lessons in an attempt to tap the same reward
circuits that creates addiction.
This article discusses four components of addiction; initiating use, the environment, a rapid
high after use, and the employment of cues. The goal is to introduce specific methods that a
company as a whole or individual sales person could use to create an addicting product or
service without the use of any drugs. While the use of these methods brings up several ethical
issues, these warrant a lengthy discussion in itself and will not be discussed in this piece.
Description of Key Findings
There are three types of drug (or product) users: Experimenters, Compulsive Users, and
Floaters.
Experimenters are usually defined as individuals who use a drug from time to time but
generally out of peer pressure or curiosity. The equivalent to this might be the individual who
only goes to the gym when going along with a friend or to see what cardio classes are offered.
Floaters are those who use relatively sparingly and mostly when provided with the drug from
someone else. An example of this could be the individual who only goes to the gym for four
weeks out of the year during the times when his friends can get him the two 2-week free gym
trial memberships.
Page 99 of 193

Compulsive Users focus a relatively large percentage of their energy to use of the drug. An
example of this is the individual who enjoys going to the gym 90 minutes every day. In
addition to the workouts, this person might also spend hundreds of dollars and dozens of
hours a month on sports supplements and research on how to increase their gains from
working out (Dr. Lukas PSYCE-1410).
The point of describing these three types is that individuals can move between the groups.
What’s important to note, however: most people who become compulsive users cannot easily
downgrade and maintain their drug use at the experimenter or floater level.
A parallel can be seen in product purchasing patterns. Sales people should work towards
converting the experimenters and floaters of their product up, into a compulsive user. The
point is not to convince someone to do something that is unhealthy financially or
physiologically. In the example of the gym members, the movement would be from slightly
profitable customers to extremely profitable customers.
Initiating Drug/Product Use
To get someone addicted to using your product or at least to have them experience, some
positive reinforcing experiences they will have to at least try your product. The first step is
finding an in-road to a new customer. Dr. Lukas of Harvard University has detailed these two
learning-based processes that can lead to experimenting with a new drug or product:
1. Your peer group is 2nd only to your parents in their ability to influence your drugtaking behavior
2. If a drug is associated with gaining approval or affection it can be reinforcing (Dr.
Lukas PSCYE-1410)
Do we have any reason to believe that this would be different for product purchasing
behaviors? The success of Avon, viral marketing firms, Mary K, and websites such as
Facebook are great examples of peer groups and families being used for commercial gains. Dr.
Robert Cialdini of Arizona State University has done a significant amount of research on this
subject of peer and social pressure. He calls it “social proof,” and believes that one of the most
powerful ways people make decisions is looking to see what others are doing or believing in
that arena. This is even more heavily relied upon in situations of uncertainty or when the
individual believes that the others being observed are similar to themselves (Cialdini 2001).
Before you can create an environment to “addict” someone to your product, you will have to
educate them. If they don’t know you exist they cannot seek you out. Camel Cigarettes is an
expert at making sure everyone knows that they exist. In Fischer’s 1991 study on brand logo
recognition, his team found that 30% of 3-year-old and 91.3% of 6-year-old children could
match the Joe Camel logo with a picture of a cigarette. Starting a very young age we are
exposed to and remember advertisements (P.M. Fischer 1991). Do 3 year olds recognize your
logo? Does it matter? The point is, imagery is a very powerful way of raising familiarity with a
product and it is the most popular reminder or cue that corporations use today.
Environmental Influence
Page 100 of 193

How do most people act in the library? How about at a dance club? A church? The meek and
shy will sing out in church and the overly extroverted vocal individuals will remain quiet in a
library. These are direct effects of the environment influencing how we act.
The environment an individual is in directly affects the likeliness and extent to which they will
buy and use a drug. There is strong evidence that individuals that have taken a certain dose of
a drug in a comfortable familiar environment later overdosed while taking the same amount
of the drug in an unfamiliar environment (Dr. Lukas PSYCE-1410). This shows how powerful
our environment is on influencing our actions. Dr. Kevin Hogan, author of “The Science of
Influence”, believes that changing the environment is the single most powerful way to
influence someone’s behavior.
This has two important applications to accessing profitable reward circuits. The first is that
you can increase some immediate positive impressions or experiences by setting the right
environment. In the same way, you can limit any immediate negative perceptions or feelings
by being sensitive to what might set some of those off. The environment can stimulate new
behavior and almost instantly changes an individual’s actions when they enter into it. The
second important application is that in a new environment the brain is trying to interpret and
adapt so enters into what Hogan refers to as a “state of flux” and it becomes influenced much
easier (Hogan 2005).
Smoke the competition
Smoking a drug is the quickest way for a user to feel a high. The active ingredients enter the
lungs where the alveoli capillaries absorb the substance and the blood is quickly pumped
through the heart and directly to the brain. Smoked substances are usually the most addictive
because of the rapid onset of positive feelings experienced after taking a hit.
One of the best pieces of evidence that something will become addicting is when there is an
immediate positive experience following the activity with a delayed or un-associated negative
experience. The closer the positive experience is to the action and the farther away the
negative experience is, the more likely the drug is to become addicting. Dr. Robert Cialdini
and Dr. Kevin Hogan have both conducted extensive research on influencing others by
creating a positive initial experience for new customers.
Dr. Robert Cialdini has completed over 30 years of research in the psychology of influence.
His most well known book, Influence: Science and Practice, details 6 tools of influence and
was based on decades of research focused on the logic and mechanics behind influencing
others in the business world.
To gain an instant positive first impression Dr. Cialdini prescribes to use the influence tools of
liking and reciprocation. Below are descriptions of these tools that directly relate to and work
with the immediate positive experience components of addiction.
 Liking: The Friendly Thief
 People like to buy from other people they know and like. Physical attractiveness,
similarity, and familiarity are three levers that can be employed to increase this “liking”
Page 101 of 193

factor.
 Reciprocation: The Old Give and Take…and Take
 This deeply imbedded social rule is what makes one feel obligated to repay someone
who has provided us with a gift, favor, or concession.
Dr. Cialdini does not research reward pathways or the process by which we become addicted
to activities or drugs. His research describes how you can gain a greater ability to influence
others or defend yourself against those who might be using these same tools of influence. This
is an important distinction because his advice is in line with the lessons that can be taken by
looking at addiction and the reward pathways that fuel it.
If you follow Dr. Cialdini’s advice you successfully give something away that your customer
believes is valuable and come off as very friendly and likeable you would not only create an
obligation on their behalf to repay you with a purchase but you would be triggering their
reward center pathways in the same fashion as a drug with a high potential of being addicting.
The quicker and more powerful the early positive experience the more “addictive” your
product or service becomes (Cialdini 2001).
Dr. Kevin Hogan believes we are constantly undergoing 4-second evaluations. Every time
somebody sees us they are evaluating dozens of details about our clothes, body language, hair,
facial expression, and movements to categorize us into a general yes or no category. Do they
generally like you and associate with you or feel that you completely different or possibly
someone with different values and morals? You are placing everyone in buckets of Yes I would
like to meet or do business with this person or No, I am not interested.
All of this happens very rapidly and almost completely unconsciously. It is part of how we are
wired, relying upon thousands of mini stereotypes that help us make decisions, like deciding
whether to trust a company, product, or sales person. One some level this is almost required
of us so that we can process all of the information we receive (Bodenhausen, Macrae, &
Sherman, 1999, Fiske & Nueberg, 1990). This helps us make sense of everything without
having to start from scratch with each observation (Gigerenzer & Golstein, 1996). In The
Science of Influence, Dr. Hogan discusses how your first impression is recorded and used
again and again later in time. Manage your four seconds (Hogan 2005).
What does your logo, website, customer service reps, store, and product say in 4 seconds of
looking at or talking with them? It has been shown that we automatically assign traits such as
talent, kindness, honestly, and intelligence to attractive individuals (Eagly, Ashmore,
Makhijani, & Longo 1991). While I have not found a specific study on the same effect applying
to products I believe that an attractively designed product would create automatic judgments
of the products quality, reliability, value, etc. This is a powerful piece of the puzzle because all
of these judgments occur so rapidly, if you can make them extremely positive you or your
product will be far more attractive. Four seconds happens to be very close to the amount of
time it takes for a smoked substance to enter the blood brain barrier and create a high. If you
can get your customer to smoke your drug (try your product), do you want them to feel
nothing, get sick to their stomach, or really high?
Bottom line: Create a rapid and powerful positive experience for your customer. Use the rule
of reciprocity, be likeable and friendly, be cognizant of the first 4 seconds, and avoid or delay
Page 102 of 193

any negative experiences or feelings at all costs. Remember, once you have done the legwork
to get them to “smoke” your product, you want to make sure that your product creates the
most rapid positive experience possible to create an initial advantage over your competitors.
Cues – Reinforcing Use/Purchases
One of the most commercially profitable lessons to take from the world of
psychopharmacology is the role that cues play in the process of addiction and drug use in
general. Cues are triggers, reminders of a drug that makes you think of feelings and
experiences associated with a drug. Cues are often what remind users to continue use,
immediately seek the drug, or relapse and begin use again. Cues are so powerful that after
months in a drug rehab program, a single cue can set someone on edge and induce use. Cues
can be odors, symbolic objects, sounds, or people. Activity in several areas of the brain rapidly
change after a cue is observed.
An example of a cue for someone who has quit smoking could be the simple smell of a lit
cigarette being held by someone walking 20 feet ahead of them on the sidewalk. Just the
smell triggers activity in their brain and brings back the old desire and feelings that led them
to begin or constantly reinforced smoking in the first place (PSYCE-1410).
Cues are used in the business world all of the time. They are billboards, freshly baked
cinnamon rolls placed on a shelf, or a life-sized Oscar Meyer Weiner waving you toward their
hot dog stand on the corner. These are things that remind us of the positive experiences we
associate with a product.
The following is based on a true story and it provides examples of cues that can be and are
commercially employed.
Imagine a 30 year old woman who used to shop at Macy’s 3-4 days a week after work or
during her lunch break. It was comfortable, fun, and exciting. For years she continues
this “use” of shopping on a weekly basis enjoying new purses, shoes, and perfumes.
While this was not going to put her into financial ruin, her husband would like to buy a
vacation home and they have been trying to save more money for one. At one point she
successfully reduced her shopping at Macy’s to one weekend a month when she would
go out with her husband. One day at lunch she eats in a food court and walks past the
front of Macy’s on the way there. She can smell all of the perfumes and lotions (Cue #1:
Smell) that are just inside the open doors. Several areas of her brain are activated by this
cue and she begins thinking about how fun it would be to go shopping for some new
spring clothes.
She goes to lunch and all she can think about is how her purse is looking a little out of
style and how she wishes she could buy the same shoes the lady is wearing (Cue #2:
Symbolic Object) at the table next to her. She resists the urge to shop and tries to forget
about the whole thing. Two days later she gets a Macy’s catalog (Cue #3: Image) in the
mail, they have a 40% off sale. That same day she takes a two hour break from work and
heads to Macy’s. As she searches the racks and tries on each item her brain is being
flooded with dopamine and she remembers exactly why she used to shop 3-4 days a
week. She ends up spending over $1,000 on products she could have done without.
Page 103 of 193

The golden nugget to take from the use of cues is that through thorough analysis of each type
of customer you serve you can inject daily reminders of the high they experienced or could
experience from purchasing your product. Analyze your business practices and systematically
tinker with using cues that other professionals in your industry have ignored.
Conclusion
Hundreds of studies have been conducted on influence and persuasion, and hundreds more
on addiction. Very few articles or live experiments have looked for a direct connection between
these two areas. This article has detailed four direct ways to learn from the thousands of
research studies done on addiction and reward circuitry in the brain and use it to create loyal
customers who can’t get enough of your product. These include: Initiating Use,
Environmental Influence, Smoking the Competition, and Employing cues. Using these in a
systematic fashion will uncover ethical avenues of creating a more profitable customer base.
References
Bodenhausen, G.V. (1990). Stereotypes as judgmental heuristics: Evidence of circadian
variations in discrimination. Psychological Science, 1, 319-322.
Cialdini, Robert B., “Influence: Science and Practice” 4th Edition Copyright 2001 by Allyn &
Bacon. See also www.influenceatwork.com.
Eagly, A.H., Ashmore, R.D., Makhijani, M.G. & Longo, L. C. (1991) “What is beautiful is good
but…”: A meta-analytic review of research on the physical attractiveness stereotype.
Fiske, S.T., & Nueberg, S.L. (1990). A continuum of impression formation: Influences of
information and motivation on attention and interpretation. In M.P. Zanna (ed.), Advances in
experimental social psychology (Vol 23, pp. 1-75. New York: Academic Press.
Gigerenzer, G., & Goldstein, D.G. (1996). Reasoning the fast and frugal way: Models of
bounded rationality. Psychological Review, 103, 650-669.
Hogan, Kevin, “The Science of Influence.” Copyright 2005 by Kevin Hogan.
Kuhn, Swartzwelder, Wilson, “Buzzed” Copyright 2003 by Cynthia Kuhn, Scott
Lukas, Scott E., “Psychopharmacology lecture notes,” Harvard University. Copyright 2006
Harvard University.
P.M. Fischer, M. P. Schwartz, J. W. Richards Jr, A. O. Goldstein and T.H. Rojas “Brand logo
recognition by children aged 3 to 6 years. Mickey Mouse and Old Joe the Camel JAMA, Dec
1991; 266: 3145 – 3148

Page 104 of 193

Hedge Fund Third Party Marketing Careers
If you are starting a third party marketing career, you are in good company. Dozens of highly
experienced investment and hedge fund marketing/sales professionals are entering the
industry each year. In terms of total firms offering services, the industry is growing by over
15% each year. While some professionals may leave an investment manager or hedge fund to
start their own third party marketing firm, many more first work or partner with an existing
third party marketing firm. There are many benefits to starting or working for a third party
marketing firm and either is relatively easy to do.
If you can raise capital and consistently bring in $100m-$200M/year you can typically
eliminate most types of political/corporate risks while earning 2-10x more than you would
while working for a large institution such as Lehman Brothers or Goldman Sachs. As the
economy goes through this rough patch where bonuses are skimmed and 50 year old
executives laid off, I see this trend of third party marketing startups and career moves
increasing.

Page 105 of 193

Institutional Hedge Fund Marketing
A recent Preqin survey provided some great insight into what is important in marketing hedge
fund managers to institutional investors. They surveyed over 1,000 institutional investors and
found that the following factors were the most important for determining which hedge fund
managers to invest in, with the last 3 points barely having any impact on the decision.
1. Performance Record
2. Risk Management
3. Quality of Personnel
4. Source of Returns
5. Fees
6. Firm Reputation
7. Client Service
What is interesting about this list from a third party marketing or hedge fund marketing
perspective is that points 2, 3 and 4 can be improved over a year or two by working on a firm’s
investment process, team and risk management procedures. By taking an institutional best
practices risk management approach, working with the right vendors, hiring the right
professionals and ensuring that your investment process is repeatable and is producing the
returns you boast you can increase your chances of winning new institutional hedge fund
mandates. I think this is fascinating and this type of deep insight should be another layer of
insight that third party marketer can provide to hedge fund clients.

Page 106 of 193

Targeting CEOs for Marketing and Sales
When networking or selling there are many advantages for targeting the CEO as your first
point of contact. Obviously, most CEOs are being cold called and emailed on a daily basis, so
this is not a new technique to closing a sale or landing a job.
The reason I am writing this blog entry is because I was just reminded of the power of
contacting CEOs. I recently sent out 10 networking emails to a very prestigious investment
firm on Wall Street. Nobody replied. During the same day I read an article about the president
of a major private equity shop leaving his post to start his own company. I emailed him
directly and he responded in 24 hours saying to send him my resume and he would give me a
call so we could meet.
I believe it was dumb luck that he actually saw and replied to my email but even if all 11 people
had replied, this president who will soon be starting his own firm is worth 20x the value of
those other contacts I reached out to. I believe 80% of your valuable contacts will be leading
executives or CEOs of small and influential, or large and powerful, organizations. It might not
make sense for where you are at right now but I will always be asking myself: How many
CEOs did you reach out to today?

Page 107 of 193

Being Detail Oriented
While doing third party marketing, I'm finding that being detail oriented doesn't really sum
up what you need to do. "Detail oriented" makes it sound like there are 3-4 things you need to
watch closely. It makes it seem there is a need to be aware of changes or concerns with your
clients.
The reality in competitive sales environments is that you have to be proactively detail
oriented. You need to not only be cold calling but also writing, speaking, networking, creating
unique marketing pieces, and providing value to others every day in 80 different ways. Many
of the people I call receive over 150 emails and 50 phone calls every single business day. To be
very successful you almost need a list of 100 ways to be proactively sales detail oriented or you
will never rise above the noise.

Page 108 of 193

Investment Sales Jobs Overview
I have found a few great online resources for investment sales jobs. Many investment sales
jobs seem to be quickly filled through recruiters or without any announcement of a hiring
need in the first place. I would like to find a couple more investment sales jobs listings. My
best recommendations are:
* The Ladders
* Hedge Fund Marketing Alliance
* Third-Party-Marketing.com
* Albourne Village (great resource)

Page 109 of 193

HEDGE FUND STARTUP

CHAPTER 3

Page 110 of 193

Top 5 Tips for Starting a Hedge Fund
I recently had a 45-minute conversation with a hedge fund startup related to capital raising,
seed capital, prime brokerage, and building a team around your hedge fund during the first
few years of operation. After hanging up the phone with this professional I thought it may
help to publish a list of tips for those starting hedge funds:
Top 5 Tips for Starting a Hedge Fund:
1. Starting a hedge fund is not a get rich scheme. In 99.9% of all cases, it takes 2-4 years
before the hedge fund becomes profitable and stable as a business. I’ve worked with a
client in the past that had been running a fund for 7 years and still had not raised
enough capital to be self-sustaining
2. Complete due diligence on your service providers. I heard of a hedge fund last month
who was quoted at over $80,000 for their legal formation costs, which is at least $35k
above what most other firms charge for this same service. If you don’t shop around you
could end up paying twice as much to service providers as you need to. No, you should
not select service providers based on price, but you should always sit down or have
conference calls at least with three prime brokerage firms, three auditors, and three
administration firms before deciding who to work with.
3. Always grow relationships. This is different than “always be selling”. Selling can be
spotted from 5 suits away and felt by how someone asks what company you work. It is
always best to take the high road, the long-term approach, but always be looking out
for those individuals who you should invest a significant portion of your time getting to
know. The benefits of doing so could be valuable advice, leads, or an allocation. If you
are always looking to close, then no professionals along the way will want to give you
feedback on your marketing materials or suggest an alternative path to raising assets.
4. Focus on risk management and your investment process more than high performance
returns. Yes, investors want to see strong returns but a top 5 sign of a green hedge fund
manager is someone who constantly pushes their extremely high returns found in
back-testing or their first 4 months of operating. Doing so ruins much chance of serious
consideration as it gives off the impression that your fund will reach for those returns
at any cost or risk. Speaking about returns too much takes away from confidence in
your fund’s investment process and risk management controls.
5. Invest in yourself. Choose high quality service providers, build a team, break down
your investment process into concrete steps, and spend 50 hours creating a solid
PowerPoint presentation/pitch book for your fund and don’t show it to a single
investor until you have completed 5 drafts of it. Too many times I see hedge funds
looking to raise capital who have not yet taken the time to organize their own thoughts,
plans, or marketing materials. If your hedge fund is not worth your own investment of
time, why should anyone invest their time and possibly capital into it? Investors look
for signs of a manager having skin in the game in multiple ways.

Page 111 of 193

SPEED of Implementation
In mid-2009, I attended a business conference with more than 10 guest speakers, all of which
were self-made millionaires and business owners. I took over 15 pages of notes and
condensed those down to just one single page. While reviewing common themes from the 30+
hours of advice from these professionals, the only piece of advice that each expert mentioned
and emphasized was “speed of implementation.” Since that conference, I have developed a
deeper understanding of this concept, figured out how to apply it to my business, and defined
why it is so important.
In short, focusing my attention on increasing my speed of implementation has brought my
productivity, motivation, and sense of progress to another level. Increasing your “speed of
implementation” requires that you make decisions faster, receive feedback faster, adjust, and
grow further. With everything in life, we move through learning curves whether it is starting a
new career, starting a new business, or launching a new product. Speed of implementation is
about moving up that learning curve three times faster than your competition so that by the
time they have reached the top of that first curve, you have already conquered three new areas
of knowledge or ability. That may sound very loose and non-exact but follow along, and I’ll
provide some examples below.
Ultimately, you can speed up your realized success, but you need to analyze what actions you
know will need to be taken, whether you know what the following steps are or not. Many
times, we cannot see the full path to success, only a few steps that we could be taking right
now. If you seize those first few steps more quickly than others, additional paths of actions
will unfold that others who are contemplating the risks of the unknown will never be able to
see.
Iterative Processes
Applying speed of implementation requires a fundamental understanding how it will help you
reach a level of breakthrough success that surprises even yourself. In the diagram below you
see four letters: A, B, and C, followed by a single letter T.
A –> B –> C –> T (Breakthrough Success)
Steps A, B, and C of most projects are obvious. You know what first steps you need to take.
Step #20 (T), though, is so far removed from your knowledge and foresight you have now that
the project seems unachievable, unrealistic, or risky. Typically, this results in us gathering
more information and asking others for their opinion. This has its time and place, but 99% of
the time, if you would just start on Steps A, B, and C, by the time those are complete you
would have a much better vision and more clarity on exactly what steps D, E, F, and G are.
Once you get those next steps complete through G you may even be able to see all the way to
step L, etc. Eventually you will get to T, step #20, but there is no way that you can get there
without first going through the iterative process of taking the first steps that are clear right
now.
In summary, you can evolve faster, meet your goals sooner, and over a short period of time,
out-pace everyone around you in your industry by just taking massive action in the areas
where you have identified the next 1-2 steps to take. Happy implementing!

Page 112 of 193

Hedge Fund Business Plan Tips
Most hedge fund startups I talk with want referrals to respected service providers or advice on
attracting seed capital. Almost none have a business plan for their hedge fund and only a few
have PowerPoint presentations explaining their investment strategy. If you are a fund
manager in this position, that doesn’t mean you have done anything wrong, but you may
consider writing both a hedge fund business plan and comprehensive 15-25 page PowerPoint
presentation now to make it easier to work with service providers, third party marketers,
institutional consultants, and potential investors. Parts of your hedge fund business plan
should include:
Management - What team members are required to run the fund effectively? What is the
chain of command, how are decisions made, and what happens if 2-3 professionals
disappeared tomorrow? Who would take over responsibilities and what would happen to your
investor’s funds? The importance of a well-constructed and managed team cannot be
overstated.
Investment Process & Risk Management - Managing risk is what running a hedge fund
is all about. Meet with your prime brokerage firm’s risk advisory division, speak with your
traders and portfolio managers, and network with other managers to pick up some best
practices in this space. At the end of the day your risk management approach, investment
process and team must be molded into one cohesive group all pointed in the right direction.
There is no magic bullet to raising assets or gaining seed capital but getting this combination
right is the most important thing you can focus on.
Service Providers - Who are you going to use as your prime brokerage firm, fund
administrator, auditor or third party marketer? How will this evolve as your fund passes the
$100M and $300M marks? Will you use multi-prime brokerage services? Capital introduction
teams? Multiple third party marketers? Your choice of firms in this space can affect the levels
of assets you manage, the quality of advice you receive and the reputation of your firm as a
whole. Our advice would be to meet and interview at least 3 service providers of each type in
person or over several phone calls and go with one that is well experienced yet no so large that
your sub $1B account is an annoyance to them.
Infrastructure & Technology - Meet with other local hedge fund managers, your trader,
your prime brokerage firm and other service providers to nail down exactly what you will need
in terms of reporting, processing and functioning as not only as a hedge fund, but a small
business. When you start a hedge fund you become an entrepreneur and you have to face all of
the challenges that accompany that distinction in addition those challenges found in
managing your portfolio. Many funds under-estimate the costs of some of the technology
needed to operate as they grow beyond more simple $1-$5M fund operations.
Marketing - Nothing is traded or managed until dollars come in. Anyone who joins your firm
or board will want to know how you plan to grow your business. What channels of investors
will you approach? Institutional investors including fund of hedge funds, consultants, large
family offices, large pension funds, smaller family offices, wealth management firms, HNW
individuals, and accredited investor clubs? Here is a hint: in our asset raising experience the
latter should be 80% of your focus if you are managing less than $100M. What resources do
you or should you have in place to meet these goals? Third party marketers? Databases of
Page 113 of 193

investors? An in-house marketing specialist? How much does this cost and when should these
resources be put in place?

Page 114 of 193

Hedge Fund PowerPoint Improvement Tips
One of the more frequent questions that we get through the prime brokerage firm I am
with and through the Hedge Fund Consulting Group is about how to improve PowerPoint
presentations so that managers can more effectively raise assets from wealth managers,
family offices and institutions. The advice is always different based on the strategy,
targeted channel of capital and current state of marketing materials but there are common
threads that come up in every conversation.
Below please find a few of the most common tips that I often provide to fund managers
looking to improve their PowerPoint presentations:
1. Update your PowerPoint quarterly, most potential investors will have most likely
already seen your one pager that is updated monthly. The presentation should
mention your performance but the main purpose of it is to present your team's
pedigree, investment process and risk controls. Hire a professional editor to spend
1 hour reviewing the presentation after each major review, this costs less than $100.
2. 3 Areas of Focus: As mentioned in the bullet point above the three areas of focus in
your presentation should be team pedigree and experience, investment process and
risk controls. Many managers tend to be very high level while describing their
investment process and risk controls, often times using terms that are seen too
often in generic industry presentations. You have to let out enough of your secret
sauce in your marketing materials so that others know there is actually something
there. Solid returns alone, even in these recent markets is not enough, you must
provide some explanation of your consistent process, system and parameters for
operating. Please see the following bullet points for advice on each of the three
most important sections of your PowerPoint presentation.
3. Team Pedigree: Take the time to describe all of the relevant experience that your
team holds and try to explain those experiences in ways that mesh well with your
firm's investment process and approach to managing risk. Many times certain
types of experience can be valuable to managing a portfolio of investments but
many times that connection needs to be spelled out in the presentation.
4. If after creating this section you realize that your team consists of just one or two
professionals without a long industry track record consider beefing up your close
advisory board with industry veterans and experts in risk and portfolio
management. Many times investors will ask how much of a fund principal's own
assets are invested in the funds, regardless of the exact dollar amount if 80-90%+ of
your own liquid assets are invested in this fund check with your compliance officer
about noting this in your presentation materials, many investors turn to hedge
funds due to the alignment of interests and providing evidence of this in your fund
sometimes helps.
5. It is important to retain capital raising talent as well, but without proper portfolio
and risk management professionals or advisory professionals in place you may just
spin your wheels. As you expand your team make sure and include a team
hierarchy tree to your presentation, this may include your advisory team and a few
Page 115 of 193

service providers or research groups that you work with daily and rely upon for
operations.
6. Investment Process: This is the most common area of PowerPoint presentations that
needs improvement. I have found it easiest to try to break your investment process
into 3-5 steps that could then as appropriate be broken down further during a due
diligence phone call or in meetings with potential investors. I would start with a
single page displaying the 3-5 step investment process your firm uses, I would follow
this by 1-2 pages explaining each step of the process in great detail.
7. Described the tools you follow, the decision making process, research inputs,
parameters for refining the universe of potential investments and triggers that may
affect how the portfolio is constructed at each step. Following this consider adding
another page to the PowerPoint on buy and sell decision triggers, when do you trim
a position? When do you sell? When are positions cleared out completely? What
stop loss provisions are in place?
8. Providing a few trading case studies in this part of the PowerPoint may be helpful.
Use real life examples from the previous quarter and update these frequently so
that analysts will be able to read into your decisions in context of the recent market
conditions.
9. Risk Management Techniques: Your risk management techniques can be placed in a
separate section of the presentation or tacked on to the end of your investment
process section in your PowerPoint. It is hard to go over-board on explaining with
granularity what risk management techniques your firm employees. Start with the
status quo, what tools, research, stop loss provisions and systems do you use? Next
move on to proprietary models you may be using, exclusive trading research or
experience that provides additional insight into how to manage risk in your
portfolio.
10. More is more. It is often better to go overboard with details on your investment
process and risk management details rather than not provide enough information.
That said, never let your presentation grow to over 25 pages unless you have 3 or
more products being presented in a single presentation. Getting your PowerPoint
right is about balancing transparency and granularity with confusion and
information-overload. Everyone is busy and often getting someone to invest 3
minutes to review your one pager can be a challenge of its own.
11. Creating a solid PowerPoint presentation is a task of continual improvement, but if
you start with the tips above it should set you above 50% of the sub $200M hedge
funds that we often speak with.

Page 116 of 193

18 Lessons from Shooting Star Hedge Funds
Fast growing hedge funds are unlike most large hedge funds and emerging hedge fund
managers. They have figured something out and are positioned to grow unlike 90%+ of
the industry. Here are some lessons that can be taken away from some of the fast
growing hedge funds we have worked with:
1. They take transparency serious and work to be pro-actively very transparent more so than their competition.
2. They approach multiple investment channels but mostly ignore those completely
out of their reach (example, potential pension fund clients for a $75M fund).
3. They are always developing relationships and they have dedicated internal and
some external professionals always selling on their behalf.
4. They not only pedigree on their team but they are always building that pedigree
through additional research, hiring of expert staff, and through speaking &
writing.
5. They document their operations and make decisions based on what is best longterm for the organization rather than what is cheaper to implement today.
6. They have risk management and trading plans that are closely followed, this
helps them improve their actual trading results and provides confidence to
investors since their historical trading actually matches up against the decision
making rules of their plans.
7. They know that "risk management" while sounding less sexy than "hedge funds" is
the business they are in, and they invest in their own business accordingly.
8. They have documented, tested, and third party verified financial controls,
compliance processes and audits completed at least quarterly and these reports
are sent to at least board members if not investors
9. They invest and improve their infrastructure every year even if the pay-off for doing
so could be 5-7 years away, ironically these are sometimes the investments that pay
off the soonest though because investors recognize the type of long-term
investments being made
10. They are experts at completing due diligence processes with institutional
consultants, family offices and other types of institutional investors. They have
professionals who are trained for phone-based pitches and sales and hand-offs
during these processes are seamless.
11. They have just as good of marketing materials as the $1B hedge funds because after
investing $300,000+ in infrastructure, talent, research, and risk management it
would be a waste not to spend $20,000 on presenting it in the right light in a
professional manner.
Page 117 of 193

12. They have seen the light that investing in the right areas does produce returns so
they re-invest their money even faster and often more efficiently than even small
hedge funds on a tight budget.
13. They invest in training for their employees and board members who they grow
more long-term relationships with than many emerging hedge fund managers
might.
14. They are not only aware of the competition but they are watching them. Not in
terms of what they are investing in so much as what risk management tools,
software, trading tools, and USPs they are employing.
15. While hiring they look for very specific skill sets and a minimum of 7 years of
experience in the industry, unless they have a policy of grooming from the ground
up. Most fast growing hedge funds we know though like to hire professionals who
can hit the ground running and quickly integrate as part of the team. They
actually have an HR department or at least one person who is head of talent
development and HR related activities, something almost all small hedge funds
lack. When they are asked on the phone by institutional consultants if they plan
on adding anyone they have a sophisticated intelligent answer instead of the
generic, "we may add an analyst in the next 3 quarters."
16. They understand the "trust by verify" mindset of investors and they make it
easy to verify everything.
17. They conduct more due diligence on business partners, investors, and potential
employees than some retail investors spend on investing in small emerging
manager hedge funds.
18. They realize their success is never going to be built on one software program, capital
raising process, or investment trend so they constantly are working to build their
1,000 blocks of competitive advantage and ability.

Page 118 of 193

Hedge Fund Startup Example | Why Start Now?
Below is an excerpt from an interesting article released by Dealbook this week on hedge fund
startups, why they are launching funds right now, and how they are doing.
This particular article provides an example of a young fund in London ran by very experienced
professionals in the industry. I think these types of articles are great as many articles put out
on hedge funds today written about the whole industry and not on young hedge funds or
about many individual funds, here is the excerpt from this article:
In a small office in London’s upscale West End, three veterans of
high finance are getting ready to start their own hedge fund.
It’s a scene that was common enough in the world’s financial hubs
during the boom years. But in the post-Lehman, post-Madoff and
post-credit-crunch world, starting a hedge fund has become harder,
riskier and potentially less lucrative. So why do it? That’s what
DealBook recently asked Mahmood Noorani, one of the founding
partners of the new London-based fund, Gyldmark Liquid Macro
Fund.
“We think it presents an opportunity to finally do things right,” he
said about the timing of the new venture. “And it was the events of
2008 that convinced us that the right time is now for what we want
to do.”
Mr. Noorani, along with his partners, Alastair Hollingdale and
George Hatjoullis, may represent the new face of the hedge fund startup: arrogance and mystery are out; liquidity and transparency are in
(source).

Page 119 of 193

Raising Capital for a Fund Startup
This article below was first published on HedgeFundStartupGuru.com. Last week I moderated
a panel discussion in New York on capital raising and how starting a fund is really starting a
small business.
The discussions were great and while everyone knows that capital is hard to raise, some good
tips and investor feedback came out of the event. We hope to do more of these in the future.
Stay tuned for Hedge Fund Group (HFG) event announcements for Chicago next month and
Moscow, Russia this September. Below please find an article on hedge funds:
The gyrating financial markets have proven difficult for even the
most experienced alternative-investment managers to navigate
over the last year, but startup hedge funds and commodity
trading advisors now confront an even tougher challenge:
convincing investors to entrust them with their money.
In the wake of 2008 - the hedge fund industry's worst year on
record - fledgling funds face gun-shy investors and tougher
competition for the assets that are available, amid a fickle market
that has made it tough to put up the numbers that made hedge
funds famous. Adding to the problem are the effects of ... source

Page 120 of 193

Starting a Hedge Fund | Tips
Below is an article about starting a hedge fund and running one over the long-term. This piece
is from Tim Sykes, a colorful Wall Street personality with a large online following and
experience in running a small hedge fund and then writing a book on the experience, which I
have reviewed here. I do not agree with everything noted below but I believe it is valuable as it
is rare to read articles by those who have managed a hedge fund about the struggles of
running a small hedge fund.
I brought an outline of my strategy and performance to a friend of a family friend, who
supposedly had access to many hedge fund and rich clients - he was impressed, but wanted
to know the details of my strategy but wouldn’t give me any assurances he simply wouldn’t
use it for himself. In addition, he wanted my returns audited and only then would he
consider helping me raise capital in exchange for a “slight” fee. I couldn’t trust this guy and
I didn’t want to tell him my secrets so I passed. This encounter made me realize that
audited returns would be necessary because my success was rather unbelievable. I figured
this expense would be crucial to my fund raising, so I found a local accountant familiar
with stock trading and spent a college semester’s tuition to have my tens of thousands of
trades audited.
After a few weeks of patiently reviewing all my trades with this accountant, the audit was
finally finished and the numbers looked good. In fact, the numbers looked too good. Yes,
my ridiculous returns might be a problem.
Lesson #1: If you consistently beat the market, you will face endless questions
about whether or not you are a fraud.
No matter, I decided to form my own fund and take my chances raising capital. Since I was
still in college and had focused solely on trading for the past few years, I had very few
business connections and most of my friends and family were not wealthy enough to invest
considering the all knowing industry regulations stated my investors would need a net
worth of $1 million or more to be worthy of such a “risky investment”. Only my continued
performance could attract new money, but, being my cocky self, that was the one part of
the equation I wasn’t worried about.
Mutual funds could accept less wealthy investors, but had severe investment limitations.
No, I did not want to start a mutual fund because most of them had to be invested at all
times and they couldn’t even short sell! Hedge funds were considered the hot new
investment vehicle, so I researched the industry nonstop for a few weeks and liked what I
saw. I discovered the startup costs to be surprisingly modest and I loved the legal flexibility
that would basically allow me to invest in any manner I saw fit.
Before the emergence of discount hedge fund startup shops over the past few years, I
found the template for offering documents and lawyer fees could exceed $75,000. Since
then, hedge fund boutiques had appeared, offering their administrative and startup
services so startup costs did not exceed $10,000. That was some reduction!
I chose the second least expensive boutique I could find (probably something ingrained in
me ever since my dad advised to always purchase the second cheapest bottle of wine from
Page 121 of 193

a restaurant’s wine list). Still, I was surprised there were so many forms to fill out and
small fees to be paid, but I went along with whatever my fund administrator said because
he had set up dozens of firms over the past few years. This was the real world so it would
take patience, something never required of me in the trading world.
Lesson #2: Everything takes much more time in the real business world
compared to the trading world.
The ink on my letters of incorporation was barely dry when it hit me. I had been distracted by
my quest for finding outside investors and creating all my companies that my trading had
suffered as a result. Successful trading is all about focus, discipline and concentration and
these lessons had been consumed by my ambition and greed. I had taken some rather stupid
losses and now, with my fund inception just days away, I would no longer have that magic
whole number in front of the millions of dollar under management. No, I would have to put a
dreaded decimal point and some other numbers before the word million, hurting my
credibility from the start.
Lesson #3: Focus on trading first; never schedule investor meetings during
market hours.
Meanwhile my fund administrator convinced me to switch brokers because my trusty online
discount brokerages were simply not used in the hedge fund world. I quickly agreed, but I was
in for a rather big surprise. This newly recommended brokerage did not have any electronic
trading platform (I was told it would be ready in weeks) and the traders executing my orders
gave me some of the worst executions I had ever seen. I called to complain, but they brushed
me off. They placated me by saying their new online software was only days away from
completion. Almost twenty months later, the software is still almost ready. I switched to yet
another recommended brokerage that had online trading software and I became friends with
one trader who expertly executed my larger orders.
Still, the commissions I paid were much higher than my previous setup so I asked for and
received several price reductions, based on how much trading I did. It quickly became clear
that broker I wanted to stay with when the broker without electronic access incredibly upped
their commission on a trade without telling me. When I called to complain, the broker told me
he knew I was paying more at the other broker and therefore he was entitled to the same rate.
He was mistaken on top of the fact that he just had taken matters into his own hands without
consulting me. The difference in price on that one trade was only a few dollars, but I lost my
temper based on the principle of the situation.
Luckily, I had started chatting regularly with a popular industry commentator and he
referred to me another broker that was perfect for short selling. This new broker’s online
software, cost, and short-selling list blew away the competition so, I dropped my other
brokers and focused on this new guy.
Lesson #4: Do not feel bad about changing brokers if they are ripping you and
your clients off. They are not girlfriends; there is always somebody cheaper and better out
there.
The CEO of the brokerage I dropped called me to see what they had done wrong and ask why I
had closed my account. I could not understand why it was so important my small fund stayed
Page 122 of 193

with their firm that supposedly had billions of dollars in accounts. My commissions with them
barely touched into the thousands. As ridiculous as this conversation was, I respected this man
for his dedication to providing customer service.
Too bad their brokerage services weren’t up to par.
Every fund manager should price as many prime brokers as possible that fit the fund’s
strategy. There are many brokers who may trade for themselves, but mainly exist and make
money by taking their share out of our online trading commissions. They make their money
from trading commissions—that’s the bottom line. There should be no reason to have to pay
an individual representative of a major brokerage when we simply use their online software,
but that’s the way it is. I am very skeptical when dealing with these
people, and I do not feel bad about getting into arguments with them. In fact, I’ve grown to
enjoy these fights.
In a few months with my quality broker, my performance moved back to the range of my
previous years, crushing the overall market and my investors were very happy. Yes, my parents
and a few of their friends were elated. After months of solid performance that consistently beat
the market, I still had yet to raise much outside capital. I realize now that it will take a lot
longer than I originally anticipated, but I have made so much money in the past and I am
confident in my skill as a trader and that is what gives me the faith to go forward. It doesn’t
hurt that I make up a large portion of my fund so I can probably go on forever, however
unhappily, even without many outside investors.
Lesson #5: The larger the ‘nest egg’ stake the manager has, with the initial
startup–the better.
When I first started my fund, I moved to New York City because I figured it was the epicenter
of the hedge fund industry so I should be able to make thousands of investor contacts. I had
met many potential investors and many in this industry, but no matter how many times
people said they were interested, no checks were written nor wires sent.
One interesting meeting was with a senior manager of a major mutual fund company who had
heard about my performance. I met him at his luxurious house in Florida and we proceeded to
discuss my situation. After a few hours of listening to my story, he told me I was very smart
and that I should focus on raising capital by changing my strategy around to suit potential
investors. He told me in his years of experience, investors would be skeptical of such high
returns and would want very low volatility. I told him in my years of outperforming the
market I could care less if people accepted my strategy as I believed people will respond to
performance. He’s probably right, but I take a certain pride in being a true rebel, a modernday financial speculator.
Lesson #6: Focus on what works for you and do not change to accommodate
others.
Next, I attended a few alternative investment conferences and handed out plenty of business
cards. I was even part of a panel discussion thanks to my fund administrator’s connections,
but my speech sounded naïve and unpolished compared to the more experienced managers
and veteran marketers in attendance. In fact, I was mesmerized by one particular fund
marketer who had grown his fund exponentially over six months. I do not think he said one
useful fact during his presentation, but he delivered an eloquent speech and several people,
Page 123 of 193

including me, approached him afterwards. Ah, the power of marketing skill. We discussed
marketing my fund, but he charged some ridiculous fees without guaranteeing results
whatsoever. I was just a startup fund; no matter how great he sounded, I wasn’t going to blow
upwards of $10,000 all based on his incredibly polished speech. So, I decided to send out my
marketing materials to all potential investors. I
contacted just about everyone I knew, but the rate of follow-through was ridiculously
minimal.
Lesson #7: Raising money does not come easily for a startup hedge fund
manager.
There are very few reasons for individuals to take a chance on a new operation unless they
have known you for years or if your performance warrants the added risk of being invested in
a startup. People in large firms will not want to take a chance on your fund because of the
minimal track record, lack of transparency of positions, and the volatility of returns. Their job
is on the line with any investments they make, and if they mess up—they are fired. For the
most part, they would rather underperform than risk losing big. This is what Warren Buffett
once called the “institutional imperative.” It is a herd mentality, where these “institutional
lemmings” move together, not necessarily doing what is best or smartest for their clients, but
what is best and smartest for themselves. The decision to go with a high performing emerging
manager is a risky bet, due to the outside chance of looking like a fool. No fund-of-fund
manager will make that decision, because they will be fired or scolded if these risky
investments don’t go exactly according to plan. Similarly, these emerging managers’ careers
are to be ended if they do not make positive yearly performance each year.
My wonderful broker, who I was almost completely satisfied with after months of moving
down commissions, recently baited me by saying one of his fund-of-fund clients might be
interested in my fund since he was comfortable with my strategy and my performance had
been above average. I had heard this many times before, from brokers trying to lure me to
changing to their brokerage services to potential investors whose checks always seemed to get
lost in the mail. Simple common sense dictates that when a fund-of-fund hears about me–if
they are serious, they will contact me, not through my broker.
Full of doubt, I still met my broker and the fund-of-fund manager for lunch so we could
discuss a possible investment. Initially, I grew rather excited because the conversation was
surprisingly detailed as this manager actually did know about my fund! In fact, his talk of a
possible investment sounded rather concrete and the proposed addition would increase my
fund assets by 25-50%. We decided to meet again a few weeks later, so I spent hours creating
a new presentation tailored to this fund-of-fund’s style. I never got to meet the fund-of-fund
manager again, but my broker said he showed him my presentation and he supposedly loved
it. The other day, my broker told me the great news. The manager had agreed to invest in my
company without even needing to meet me again. Wow! Awesome! Of course, there was a
catch. My broker felt horrible telling me (as he claimed), but he could only transfer the funds
to me if the commissions on trades for this new investment were quintuple my normal rate! I
felt my heart sink. I anticipated compensating my broker for this capital introduction, but
quintuple fees with no hope for a reduction over time over the lifetime of the investment
seemed somewhat ridiculous. I said no.
Lesson #8: With capital introduction, there’s always a catch.
Page 124 of 193

My fund is listed on many hedge fund databases, but Hedgeco.net and Hedgefund.net have
led to the most information requests by far. After a year of listing my fund, I have had over a
thousand hits on my fund’s web pages. In fact, many third party marketers have contacted me
through these websites. I have a premium listing on Hedgefund.net that costs the equivalent
of a semester of college.
Some third party marketing firms have also contacted me. One marketer said he was showing
my PowerPoint presentation to potential investors the day after I emailed him and he would
get back to me. Three months later, he has yet to get back to me. Another marketer said he
would work for my fund, but wanted 50% of the incentive fee I’d receive on any profits on the
investment. Another wanted 30% of the incentive fee. With those kinds of figures, it would
take me too long to make it worth my effort even if my returns continued to trample the
market. I wanted to pay an upfront finders’ fee to them, but they knew that was not where the
big money was. I understood their dilemma; why should they risk their entire reputation on a
startup fund with only the chance for a small payoff?
But there was an individual that said he had the connections and was willing to take a job full
time with me without taking more than 10% of the incentive fee. I just wanted him to
introduce my fund to his connections because I have just a handful of family and friend
connections that were wealthy enough to be potential investors. He demanded an exorbitant
yearly pay for his services, and would not guarantee he could raise the millions he promised,
but he was optimistic after reading my presentation and looking at my returns. I was happy
yet skeptical that he did not want to know more about my strategies. It took weeks for him to
“write out some contracts” and he insisted I only use his lawyer. Nevertheless, I was
optimistic after having talked to him several times. But when I looked at the contracts, I was
dismayed.
He wanted to focus on completely overhauling my marketing by creating new expensive
presentations. He also tried to sell me on using his buddy as a graphics designer, supposedly
the guy who designed the Oakley logo, to design an incredible logo for me that would surely
attract investors! I am no marketing genius, but somehow I felt a new logo was not the
problem and the Oakley guy was more than a little out of my price range. He also wanted to do
a traveling road show to his contacts to present my fund so I could stay put and focus on my
trading. Somehow paying for him to jet around the country without me was not my idea of a
good investment. I told him no and I designed a simple logo on Microsoft Paint. I still receive
many compliments on my simple yet modern logo each week.
Lesson #9: This industry is full of frauds and con artists.
Are you seeing the pattern here yet? This industry is tough for the little guy because there are
many promises and very little follow through. Not being able to advertise is very difficult and
you must rely on contacts and networking for capital introductions. You have to be willing to
give up your strategy and any chance at tiny yet consistent profits for a shot at the big time. I
chose the other path; focus on what I do best and be content to make some decent money
while waiting for more opportunities. I figure there will always be people who want to raise
money for me and they will only multiply with time, especially if I keep outperforming the
market. I do not want to compromise my trading and investing style and I accept the fact that
it might take years for investors to come. Only performance and patience will create the path
of success—a journey I am willing to take.
Page 125 of 193

Lesson #10: Results are much slower in the real world compared to the
trading world.
Timothy Sykes is a hedge fund manager, star of the reality show Wall Street Warriors, and
author of the upcoming book, “An American Hedge Fund”. He can be reached at
timothysykes.com.

Page 126 of 193

PART II: THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

The following is an excerpt from The Hedge Fund Book: A Training Manual for
Professionals and Capital Raising Executives (Wiley 2010) ISBN#: 0470520639
This book can be purchased from major book retail stores or online at:
http://www.amazon.com/Hedge-Fund-Book-Professionals-CapitalRaising/dp/0470520639/

Page 127 of 193

Hedge Fund Marketing Pro

CHAPTER 4

There are three ways to raise capital: having more high net worth
friends than the next fund manager, landing early institutional
allocations, or hard work. Get to work.

his chapter provides some basic capital raising and marketing tips, as well
as a case study analysis of Tassini Capital Management, a Californiabased hedge fund manager. Tassini Capital Management was attempting to
grow its assets from $39.2 million in assets under management (AUM) to
$250 million in AUM in a three-year period. The case study outlines the
management’s struggles, challenges, lessons learned, and the formula they
found for raising capital from new investors. This chapter provides some
short interviews on capital raising, as well.
Why important: The capital-raising tips, strategies, and case study
included in this chapter are only available due to lessons learned the hard
way, through making mistakes, receiving feedback, and adjusting capitalraising strategies until they worked. Studying this chapter carefully can
save liter- ally $25,000 or more in consulting fees and, more importantly,
double the rate at which you raise capital. If these lessons and tips are
ignored, your team will likely repeat mistakes that others often make while
trying to grow their AUM.

T

BONUS VIDE O MODULE
To watch a video on hedge fund marketing, please type this URL into
your Web browser: http://HedgeFundTraining.com/Marketing

39

Page 128 of 193

40

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

BAD NEWS
The bad news is there is no magic bullet to raising capital. I spoke with
at least a dozen managers recently at a Hedge Fund Premium networking
event in Chicago regarding their capital raising plans. Most were looking
for capital-raising help of some type, and we discussed many roadblocks
that managers are seeing between them and the AUM levels they are trying
to achieve.
Daily action and discipline are the best things that fund managers can do
to raise capital. They must take responsibility for marketing their fund and
have someone reaching out to new investors on a daily basis. If they do not,
they will forever remain in the bottom 20 percent of the industry in terms
of assets. Very few funds gain their initial assets through a super-powerful
third-party marketing firms. Third-party marketers typically like to work
with managers who have some AUM momentum or foundation underneath
them.
To raise capital, managers need to have superior tools and processes to
those of their competitors. This means superior investor cultivation processes
in place, superior investor relationships management, superior marketing
materials, superior outreach efforts, superior e-mail marketing, and superior
focus on investors who actually have the potential of making an investment.
Each of those topics could be discussed for a whole conference, and all of
these moving parts need to be in place to compete in today’s industry. While
this does not mean that managers need to outspend others in marketing,
they do need to strategically plan their marketing campaigns to compete
effectively.
There is a good quote which goes something like, “If you want to
have what others don’t, you have to do what others won’t.” In other
words, translated for hedge fund marketing: If you want to grow assets,
you must put in the extra work, planning, and strategy that others skip
over.
Every morning, try to listen to a 45-minute custom MP3 audio
session of business lessons, marketing tips, and positive thinking notes.
One great quote I hear every morning is connected to an interview Brian
Tracy conducts in which a multimillionaire says that success is easy:
“You must decide exactly what it is you want, and then pay the price to
get to that point.”All of this may sound wishy-washy or inexact, but it
is important to realize that there is no single magic bullet for raising
capital. It takes hard work, trial, and a superior effort on all fronts to
stand out from your competition.

Page 129 of 193

Hedge Fund Marketing Pro

41

BONUS VIDEO M ODULE
To watch a video on third-party marketing please type this URL into
your Web browser: http://HedgeFundTraining.com/3PM

PUBLIC RELATIONS MANAGEMENT
Public relations has to be one of the most ignored marketing tools of hedge
fund managers today. The Hedge Fund Group has worked with over three
dozen hedge funds on their marketing plans and capital-raising efforts. So
far, the most intense public relations effort our firm has seen set forth by a
sub–$1 billion hedge fund was a single press release over a four-year period.
This is not to say that any hedge fund that is not publishing at least four
press releases per year is doing something wrong. However, many could
benefit by simply making themselves more available to the press.
The media is hungry for real-time opinions of hedge fund managers,
traders, and marketers. They need comments on current market conditions,
trends in hiring and firing of traders and portfolio managers, and what
prospects lie ahead for the industry as a whole.
Many hedge fund managers shy away from contributing to stories in the
press. I would strongly encourage you to speak with your legal counsel and
see if they would approve of your discussions with the media if you stick to
industry trends, general market trends, and long-term movements you are
seeing in the industry.
Top Four Tips for Taking Advantage of Public Relations for your Hedge
Fund
1. Speak to your legal counsel to check on exactly what you can or cannot
say to the press.
2. Develop a list of 10 to 15 targeted publications that you would like to
appear in. Identify the editors of financial columns in those publications
or news sources and introduce yourself to them as a resource.
3. Speak at public events, conferences, networking events, and other places
in the industry where you will be heard not only by others in the industry
but probably by a few members of the press as well.
4. Consider writing a book on your insights and experience. Many
professionals in the hedge fund industry are often interviewed on TV
after they

Page 130 of 193

42

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

have published a book on a specific topic in the hedge fund industry,
such as regulation or quantitative trading. Yes, writing a book sounds
extreme to many who are already working 50 hours a week, but that is
also why it would be so effective to consider doing so. Those with the
time and skills to write well are often not the same ones who have the
experience and insight to write something unique and valuable.

BONUS VIDE O MODULE
To watch a video on public relations strategies for hedge funds, please
type this URL into your Web browser: http://HedgeFundTraining.
com/PR.

EDUCATIONAL MARKETING
One of the most effective ways you can market your hedge fund is by being
four times more educational and easy to understand than your competition.
I wrote in my blog last year that a recent survey had shown that over 78 percent of institutional investors will not invest in something that they cannot
understand, I would imagine that for high net worth (HNW) investors this
figure is even higher.
While some managers purposely position their fund to appear “black
box” and top secret, there are opportunities to market hedge funds which are
open, transparent, and simple in explaining the fund’s investment process
and risk management tools. This does not mean ignoring advanced methods
or models of trading and managing portfolios, but it would require more
of a 10,000-foot-view and explanation of the investment process instead of
the 500-foot-views that are so often used. The trick in doing this right is to
balance providing enough detail and real meat that an institutional investor
or consultant will gain some granularity, while not completely overwhelming
HNW investors or wealth managers who may be less versed in common
hedge fund strategies of portfolio management techniques.
Here is a list of four additional ways you may market your hedge fund
in a more educational or simple way:
1. PowerPoint. Dedicate 20 percent of the PowerPoint presentation to
educational content. Asterisk all industry terms and note that definitions
are provided in the back of the presentation. Explain the investment

Page 131 of 193

Hedge Fund Marketing Pro

43

process so that anyone could understand, at least on a high level, how
your fund operates. Start with the team, high-level investment process,
and how that all comes together before digging into trading examples
or risk management tools.
2. Folder. Many managers use a folder of marketing materials while
meeting with clients. This often includes a one pager, a PowerPoint
presentation, and a recent quarterly market outlook newsletter written
by the portfolio manager. It is wise to always include some additional
reading in the folder as well. Provide two to three white papers
written by experts outside of the firm that speak to the trends related
to the assets that your firm invests in or strategies your firm employs.
3. Speaking and writing. Speaking at wealth management conferences and
HNW-related events can be highly effective. The easily overlooked
aspect here is audience: Are there more competitors or potential
investors at the events you speak at?
4. Wealth management and financial planners. Some of the most ignored
sources of capital for hedge fund managers are small to medium-size
wealth management firms and financial planning groups that serve
HNW professionals from time to time but don’t manage $1 billion-plus
in total assets. Many of these groups work as part of a broker-dealer
network or RIA, and they may only meet in person with 5 to 10 hedge
funds in any one year, whereas larger institutions may meet with several
each week. These relationships take a long time to build into effective
sources of capital, but if they are approached in a more educational
fashion than your institutional leads, they can pay off as very sticky
long-term accounts.

BONUS VIDE O MODULE
To watch a video on educational marketing strategies for raising
capital, please type this URL Into your Web browser: http://
HedgeFundTraining.com/Educational

FORGET ABOUT CONTACTING MORE INVESTORS
Yes, it may seem illogical to forget about contacting new investors while
attempting to raise capital, but this may be what you need to do to meet
your business goals. Many of the hedge fund managers I speak to want to

Page 132 of 193

44

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

be connected with investors; they want lists of family offices, seed capital
providers, or HNW wealth management firms. While accessing more
investor contact details may be a useful resource and improve your
marketing efforts, it is often not the real constraint that is holding your
business back.

BONUS VIDE O MODULE
To watch a video on called “What Is a Family Office?” please type this
URL into your Web browser: http://HedgeFundTraining.com/FamilyOffice.

No business is perfect; every business has some constraint that, if removed, would help the business more than anything else. Sometimes this
constraint is portfolio management expertise, sometimes it is marketing
materials, and many times it is lack of institutionalized processes and
tools. Seldom do I meet with hedge funds which, if provided with a long
list of 1,000 investors, would explode in assets under management.
Most hedge funds do not take the time to write down all of their current
business problems or symptoms and ask four “why” questions to identify
the root constraint in their business model. A good tool that I have seen used
by half a dozen management consulting gurus is the “Four Why Process.”
If you ask why something is happening four times, you will often get to the
root cause of the problem. Here’s an example of how the process is used:
•

•

•

•

•

Initial problem/symptom: We don’t manage $100 million in assets
yet. Why?
Potential answer and follow-up question: We are not raising capital
from wealth management firms as you had hoped. Why?
Potential answer and follow-up question: Our marketing materials have
not been brought up to speed with the competition’s - they are light and
our investment process is poorly described. Why?
Potential answer and follow-up question: We know that you should
be paying a consultant or in-house marketer to help with both
marketing materials and generating relationships, but you have not
hired one. Why?
Potential answer: We do not have the profits available to hire a fulltime marketer, but we can get around to creating a system to share
equity, grow relationships with third-party marketers, or build a
marketing- related advisory board.

Page 133 of 193

Hedge Fund Marketing Pro

45

The point of this exercise is to identify what the bottleneck is that is
slowing down your growth. If a hedge fund can be seen as a 20-link chain,
you must have all 20 strong links in place to keep the business growing
long-term. If 19 links can carry the weight of a $300 million fund but one
link is only up to par for a $10 million fund, than you will limit your growth
and may never reach or only very slowly grow into a $300 million fund. The
biggest return for your investment of time and money will be to focus on
fixing that one broken or subpar link in your operations, marketing, trading,
or internal business processes. Anything else would be a relative waste of
money or energy.
This is a unique marketing technique because it is a reminder that the
smartest thing you could do for your marketing and sales campaign may have
nothing to do with picking up a phone or buying a database of investors.
Before spending more money or valuable time, consider the following two
tips for improving your ability to attract investors:
1. Use the “Four Why Tool” to drill down deeper into the top five
problems that you see your fund facing right now. Oftentimes three to
five problems will be symptoms of a single root cause which can be
directly addressed.
2. Ask others, including your advisory board, current investors, potential
investors and co-workers, what is holding your fund back. Do not
settle with two-word surface answers. Try to identify what three to
five action steps your fund could take this quarter to improve how you
are positioned and address the number one limiting factor in your
business.

BONUS VIDE O MODULE
To watch a video called “What Is Holding Your Hedge Fund
Back?” please type this URL into your Web browser: http://
HedgeFundTraining.com/Holding

E-MAIL MARKETING BEST PRACTICES
I worked as a risk consultant and capital raiser for seven years before starting
my own firm. During the last few years of those positions, I was responsible
for raising most assets on an e-mail and phone-based system, and I have

Page 134 of 193

46

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

slowly picked up some tips for capital raising since then. Our business is so
e-mail-based (800,000 messages in two years) that we have been forced to
study best practices in this space to improve our efficiency at connecting with
potential clients. Here are the e-mail marketing strategies we have picked up
the hard way over the past few years.
Most CEOs don’t invest their time or put much importance on managing e-mail communications. If you invest your time in increasing your
effectiveness at e-mail marketing you will have an edge over others.
E- mail
Marketing
Best
Practices
1. Understanding importance of copy. What is the difference between a
$1 bill and a $100 bill? The message on the paper. The message on your
e-mail, the message on your investor letters, the message on everything
you write makes the difference between it being worth $1,000 and
$100,000. I think that sales copy writing is consistently undervalued
and overlooked by business and investment professionals of all types.
One of the best tips I can provide for e-mail marketing would be simply
not to overlook the power of a carefully constructed e-mail marketing
campaign or well-written piece of communication.
2. Use the professional’s first name in the subject of e-mails to them.
Marketing Sherpa 2008 study showed this practiced increased open
rates by 30 percent; using both the first and last name increased open
rates by 22 percent.
3. Focus on the headline. The most important part of any piece of copy
is the headline. Oftentimes over e-mail the headline of the e-mail is
a slight variation of the subject line, perhaps the subject line minus
the person’s first name. Focus on fitting a benefit and then the chain reaction of that benefit into the headline if possible: “Double Your Capital
Raising Resources to Cultivate More Investors Each Day.” We have
found that putting the benefit after your firm name is most effective.
Just be careful not to promise benefits that are at odds with your
compliance department or the core of what you are really offering.
4. Focus on the start. Hook the reader in the first paragraph. Make sure
the first paragraph is no longer than two sentences and provides a very
concise summary as to what will be discussed in the following message.
If possible, try to fit in both what the benefits will be of hearing this
information and what the dangers are of not paying attention to it.
Psychological studies consistently show that professionals are almost
twice as likely to listen more closely and take action on information
related to a fear or some negative result than on some potential benefit
or positive outcome. This does not mean you should scare clients into
working with you, but you should hook readers by using framing, which

Page 135 of 193

Hedge Fund Marketing Pro

5.

6.

7.

8.

47

mentions the positive results as well as the negative consequences of not
taking action. The recent use of e-mail browsers that let you preview the
first 50 to 150 words of e-mail messages make the start of your e-mail
even more important.
Use professional e-mail distribution services. Use a professional e-mail
distribution service such as Aweber. This costs $10/month or less to
start using. By using this service your e-mails will be delivered more
often, your campaigns will be more organized, and the service will more
than pay for itself through saving you valuable time. Make sure that
whatever service you use, you consider opt-in confirmation and enable
an unsubscribe link at the bottom of each e-mail you send.
Automate relationship development. Use automated follow-up e-mails.
Write a series of 20 educational e-mails covering industry white
papers, industry findings, commonly misunderstood terms, and
information about your fund. Once you have qualified an investor, ask
for their permission to opt into an e-mail list which will automatically
send them these professional papers once a month for the next 20
months. If you deliver value in each of these 20 e-mails, your further
inquiries will be well received. We currently use Aweber to send out
automated e-mails to over 50,000 professionals each month.
Use stories. Whenever you are writing an e-mail or sales letter, try to
incorporate a story of some type. How was this product created? How
did your career and experience evolve and bring you to this point where
you have gained this knowledge? If you read the early part of this chapter
you will see that I have a short story about my own experience with
e-mail marketing which led me to write this chapter. This helps create a
frame of reference for the reader and can be helpful in many cases.
Include a picture and signature. End your communication with a picture
of the professional on the team who is held out as the communicator or
leader. Make sure that a real scanned signature and professional picture
are included to help readers connect with your team.

Our team provides over 1,600 hedge funds a year with capital-raising
advice, resources, and products. Our team has helped raise hundreds of
millions of dollars in capital as well. Through these two sources of experience
we see many of the same fund marketing mistakes made over and over again.
If you can avoid these mistakes, you will be more effective than 80 percent
of your competitors in the marketplace.
Top 10 Fund Marketing Mistakes
1. You have a three-month capital raising goal. This is unrealistic and
the wrong mind-set to go out of the gates with. You need to plan,

Page 136 of 193

48

2.

3.

4.

5.
6.

7.

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

build relationships, educate potential clients, and design high-quality
marketing strategies and materials for the long term. It takes time to
raise lots of capital, and usually the more valuable the investor, the
longer the sales cycle. Don’t try to cram everything into a one- to threemonth capital raise.
You’re counting on simply building a track record and then hoping to
outsource all marketing to a great third-party marketing firm down the
road. This puts all of your eggs into the third-party marketing basket.
Third-party marketers have hundreds of potential clients approaching
them each year. It is risky to assume one will not only take you on as a
client but actually raise a sustainable level of capital for you.
You’re spending $8,000 on graphic design and web site design but
$0 on hiring someone who is an expert at constructing sales letters,
writing copy, and creating effective headlines and taglines for your
positioning in the marketplace. Many times I see fund managers who
want to look very professional but there is no meat in what they are
saying, no hook to draw in the reader.
Not dedicating resources to capital raising is the most obvious mistake
that I see in the industry. Many fund managers will act as the CIO,
make two to three phone calls a week or sometimes per month, and
then wonder why they have not raised more capital. Performance does
not market itself, pedigree does not swing all doors wide open. You need
to have dedicated resources, an internal marketing resource working at
least 20 hours/week, investor databases so you can spend your time
calling on real prospects instead of always having to qualify them, and a
growing internal customer relationship management (CRM) or investor
relationship management (IRM) system in place to track the results of
your investment in investor relationships.
You speak at conferences full of your closest competitors instead of your
highest-value potential investors.
You underestimating the value of a first-name-basis relationship with
your top investor prospects. Some professionals, especially those with
technical backgrounds, think that marketing is a numbers game. Yes,
you sometimes have to reach out to many to develop relationships with
few, but relationships are at the core of everything that gets done. Like
Jeffrey Gitomer says, “All things equal, people like to do business with
friends; all things being unequal, people still like to do business with
friends.”
Another mistake I see in the hedge fund space is a lack of capital-raising
training or fund-marketing instruction. You do not have to pay to have
your marketing staff trained, but at the very least you should document
your own best practices, processes, and investor pipeline development

Page 137 of 193

Hedge Fund Marketing Pro

49

plans, so they can be easily communicated to team members and board
members and then constantly improved each quarter.
8. You miss the boat on authority positioning, educational forms of
marketing, and improving your own pedigree standing within the
industry.
9. You write off PR. Most managers shy away from or completely ignore
public relations as an avenue for helping create interest and positioning
for experts on their team. Many funds have now successfully employed
the media to spread messages about their fund.
10. A mistake that I see more than 90 percent of funds doing today is using
a boring, run-of-the-mill unique selling proposition (USP) or, worse yet,
not having one at all.

COPY WRITING
Copy writing is the use of words to promote a person, business, opinion,
or idea.
Copy writing is the most undervalued and overlooked tool that a
marketer or sales professional can develop. Many professionals value coldcalling skills, networking, branding, or public relations skills but I think that
copy writing skills are the most valuable.
Top Five Reasons Copy Writing for Capital Raising Is Important
1. The headline of letters, subject line of e-mails, and first few words of
speeches are the most important. Crafting a great headline can take
hours to complete, but it will make the difference between being shown
to others and never being noticed.
2. Many hedge funds, family offices, and private equity groups spend over
$20,000 of their money on their marketing materials every year, yet
95 percent of decisions are based on what’s always been done or what
sounds good instead of A/B testing results to find what is effective.
3. Every investment fund markets itself using e-mails and investor letters.
Without copy writing skills you may not only be failing to connect with
your audience but you could actually be turning them off and pushing
clients away.
4. Investment funds of all types are started by successful traders and portfolio managers; very few are started only by marketers. Due to this
nature of how the business is founded and grown, managers overlook
niche marketing practices such as copy writing or see them as something
beneath them.
5. Ninety-nine percent of your competitors are not using copy writing best
practices.

Page 138 of 193

50

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

BONUS VIDEO M ODULE
To watch a video on the importance of copy writing for capital raising, please type this URL into your Web browser: http://
HedgeFundTraining.com/Copywriting.

CASE PR OFIL E
Fund name

Tassini Capital Management

Strategy
Track record
AUM
Team

Long/short
4 years and 8 months
$39.2 million
Brian Tassini, co-portfolio manager
Chris Tassini, co-portfolio manager
John Travis, junior portfolio analyst
Mary Powers, administrative assistant

In the past, Tassini Capital Management has conducted all marketing
efforts in-house, using Chris Tassini’s background in business and marketing
to approach potential investors. Over a period of four years their fund grew
from just $2 million at inception to $39.2 million. Their current AUM
profile is made up of family and friends’ money, high net worth accredited
investors, and wealth management firms. Figure 3.1 is a diagram showing
this breakdown in assets under management.
AUM in Millions
$3.1
Family & Friends

$22.2

$14.2

HNW Individuals
Wealth Management
Firms

F I G U R E 3 . 1 AUM Distribution in Millions,
Tassini Capital Management

Page 139 of 193

Hedge Fund Marketing Pro

51

In the past, the team only spent a collective 15 hours a week in marketing
the fund or promoting their brand in the industry. This was carried out by
Chris Tassini, and most outgoing sales calls were to investors he had met at
conferences or networking events in the industry.
Tassini Capital Management has recently hired a proven third-party
marketing team to help them raise capital from new investors. A thirdparty marketer is a professional who independently raises capital for fund
managers on a contractual basis, often raising capital for multiple funds at
any given time (learn more at ThirdPartyMarketing.com). The goal is for
Tassini Capital Management to raise a total of $210 million and bring total
AUM up to $250 million in three years.
From the very first day of working together, the third-party marketing
team started to make changes to the marketing materials, investor relationship management systems, investor databases, execution, and processes
followed while raising capital. The first change made was to the marketing
materials of the fund. Tassini Capital Management had a new logo developed, its PowerPoint presentation expanded, and one-pager redesigned as
well. A one-pager is a concise overview of a hedge fund’s track record, team,
performance ratios, and relative performance. The most important changes
were made to the PowerPoint presentation, often referred to as a deck or
pitch book in the industry. The advice the third-party marketing firm gave to
Tassini Capital Management regarding the pitch book included these tips:
•

•

•

•

•

•

Make the competitive advantage clear—make sure that the hedge fund
has a unique selling proposition (USP), not just a selling proposition.
Most funds talk about diversification and a unique investment process
or team without much meat or real unique advantage presented.
There should be three main areas of focus in the PowerPoint presentation: team pedigree and experience, investment process, and risk
controls.
Work with the highest-quality service providers possible so that the fund
does not get scrutinized more than it already will in the normal course
of due diligence.
Use prime brokerage and fund administration business partners to
improve your marketing materials. These two service providers often
provide reporting and risk management aspects which beef up the institutional feel of the organization.
Do not ever let the marketing presentation be longer than 30 pages. It
is challenging enough to get the attention of an investor long enough to
thoroughly review a one-page marketing piece on your firm.
Purchase premium graphics for $2 at iStockphoto.com; develop professional logos for your fund at Design99.com.

Page 140 of 193

52

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

•

Update the PowerPoint presentation quarterly with current performance
numbers that have been verified by the administrator or auditor.

BONUS VIDE O MODULE
To watch a video on unique selling propositions (USP), please type this
URL into your Web browser: http://HedgeFundTraining.com/USP.

Investor relationship management (IRM) systems were the next thing
that the third-party marketing firm improved. In the past, Tassini Capital
Management used a Microsoft Word investor tracking system, when one
was used at all. Now they pay a small amount per month for an account
with SalesForce.com which allows them to track the history of their communications with each investor and, even more importantly, alerts the team
when another contact point is needed with a potential investor. It took a
few months for the Tassini Capital Management staff to figure out how to
use everything in SalesForce.com, but ultimately they found it powerful and
flexible to adjust as their fund grew.

BONUS VIDE O MODULE
To watch a video on investor relationship management (IRM) please
type this URL into your Web browser: http://HedgeFundTraining.com/
Investor-Relationship-Management.

Investor databases are something that Tassini Capital Management had
never used in the past. Through InvestorDatabases.com and with help from
the third party marketer, they obtained contact details for over 1,000 potential investors and put together a strategic plan for approaching 200 of
them at any given time.
The method by which Tassini Capital Management was raising capital
in the past was not effective. In addition to not using an IRM system, the
team had somewhat randomly been approaching many different types of
investors, from large European banks to small seed capital providers. The
third party marketing firm consulted Chris and Brian Tassini and found that
they were both unwilling to part with equity ownership in the management

Page 141 of 193

Hedge Fund Marketing Pro

53

company of the fund in exchange for capital. They also reviewed past notes
and confirmed that all efforts to work through institutional investment consultants had been stalled due to sub–$100 million AUM levels. The result
was a much more focused method of systematically approaching a mix of
investors which included 10 percent institutional investment consultants,
50 percent wealth management firms, 20 percent multifamily offices, and
20 percent high net worth individuals. While institutional investment consultants were not going to invest any time soon, they were kept in the mix
so that the team could continue to receive valuable institutional feedback
from the consultants.
Despite having hired an experienced third-party marketing firm for assistance in raising capital, Tassini Capital Management consistently faced
two main challenges while development relationships with investors. The
first challenge was catching the attention of a potential investor. With so
many competitors in the industry offering similar strategies, it was hard to
stand out from the crowd. Convincing a potential investor to engage in a
40-minute due diligence call was often in and of itself relatively significant.
The second challenge the team faced was the noninstitutional feeling that
potential investors got while looking at their sub–$40 million portfolio and
team of four professionals. The business looked unsteady and unproven to
larger institutional firms that typically had expectations of $80 to $150 million as a very minimum needed before allocations are made.
Over two years of trial and error and receiving advice from other
managers, Tassini Capital Management adjusted its marketing approach in
several ways to meet these challenges. These three changes included:
1. Implementing an institutional-quality multiple-modality marketing approach including e-mail marketing, conference speeches, article writing,
phone calls, and traditional mailings. Each team member had a different role in this marketing approach which supplemented the work
completed by the third-party marketer.
2. Developing prewritten and scripted responses to questions regarding the
institutional quality of the firm’s trading, technology, risk management,
and investment research processes. This attention to these specific areas
of operations led to consistent improvements in how they are carried
out. Many of these changes were suggested by free-to-access institutional
investment consultants who had been called upon for feedback.
3. Constructing a sense of authority status around the firm through its
presence in the market. The team members matched this awareness in
the industry with improved branding and marketing materials and tried
to leverage this to meet in person with as many potential investors as
possible. Meeting investors face-to-face allowed them to get past the
gatekeeper at many wealth management and family office firms.

Page 142 of 193

54

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

BONUS VIDEO M ODULE
To watch a video on systematic capital-raising tips, please type
this URL into your Web browser: http://HedgeFundTraining.com/
Systematic.

STEPHEN ABRAHAMS, VICE PRESIDEN T OF
MARKETING F OR A LONDON-BASED H ED GE FUND
For this chapter’s first interview, I sat down with Stephen Abrahams, who
raises capital for a London-based boutique hedge fund manager. Here he
shares some lessons and tips on what he has been doing to raise assets for
his fund.
Richard Wilson: What tips could you provide to hedge fund capital raisers
on developing investor relationships?
Stephen Abrahams: Keep in touch on a regular basis, find out what they are
looking for, and ask for as much feedback as possible, good or bad. See
if you can help them in any way, and always verify that you are speaking
with the right person at the firm.
Richard Wilson: That is good advice. The rule of thumb that I used while
raising capital was to keep in touch with my top prospects by mail,
e-mail, or phone once every 10 days, or about every week and a half.
With lower-priority prospects I would try to keep in touch twice a month
in some way. Do you use a CRM system of some type to manage investor
prospects?
Stephen Abrahams: We do not right now but I think they are a good idea.
Richard Wilson: I have used SalesForce and found it effective, but I have also
used an Excel spreadsheet to simply track investor contact details. I know
many professionals, though, simply use Outlook’s contact databases, task
manager, and reminder system. How do you track the development of
your sales pipeline? Do you rate investor prospects to keep them in priority
follow-up order?
Stephen Abrahams: I use an Excel sheet and contact cards along with
Outlook tasks and calendar synched to my iPhone.
Richard Wilson: How many investors is your hedge fund approaching or
calling in any three-month period—400 investors, 50 investors, 1,000
investors?

Page 143 of 193

Hedge Fund Marketing Pro

55

Stephen Abrahams: I approach 50 to 100 investors, but it would depend,
as I prefer to research and target more likely prospects rather than use a
shotgun approach to cultivating new investors.

PRATIK SHARMA, MANAGING
DIRECTOR , ATYANT CAPITAL
For the next interview in this chapter I met with Pratik Sharma, managing
director of Atyant Capital, who has launched and raised capital for several
hedge funds in the past, learning some lessons and picking up ways of doing
business right along the way.
Richard Wilson: Pratik, can you first share what some of your experience
includes?
Pratik Sharma: I’ve launched two funds in the past four years. One is a
long-only, deep-value fund focused on middle-market Indian equities.
The second one is a precious metals focused L/S fund investing in equities,
ETFs, futures, and options. I’ve had to learn foreign regulations from
scratch, learn how to work effectively with offshore service providers,
and do all the marketing and client relations work. I’m not a portfolio
manager, I am a capital raiser with a background in sales and management
consulting.
Richard Wilson: What types of marketing materials do you use to market
your fund to new potential investors? Anything really unique?
Pratik Sharma: It’s pretty standard. We use a standard pitch book/fact sheet.
We are in the process of creating a more dynamic web site that integrates
a blog, performance reports, and all of our social networking efforts.
Richard Wilson: Do you use a CRM system? How do you track important
investor relationships or potential investor contact details?
Pratik Sharma: Yes, we use Salesforce.com to track our investor relationships
and to keep track of important developments over the long term.
Richard Wilson: That’s great. I have used SalesForce as well—it is a tool
that, if used right, I think can really improve the long-term ability to
raise capital even if it does take some extra time to store everything in
the system up front. Does your firm build organic investor databases or
purchase investor databases from others?
Pratik Sharma: We build our databases organically over time. Our web site
is designed to drive inbound interest and to keep that interest.
Richard Wilson: Some investor databases are not organized for capital raising and can be a relative waste of time. How long is your typical investor
sales cycle? Eight months? Twelve months? Eighteen months?

Page 144 of 193

56

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

Pratik Sharma: We are focused on high net worth individuals and family
offices. When we raise capital from high net worth individuals our sales
cycle is two to three months.
Richard Wilson: What is the most valuable lesson you have learned while
raising capital over the past few years?
Pratik Sharma: You must have an easy-to-explain and compelling unique
selling proposition.
Richard Wilson: I am so glad you mentioned that, because I think it is
underestimated. To an investor who sees 100 presentations a month,
everyone looks the same, and it is hard to be truly unique and convey that
effectively in a meaningful way. Is there any one book, resource, tactic,
or tool that has noticeably increased the ability of your firm to reach new
investors and raise more capital?
Pratik Sharma: We have found that white papers and webinars are the
most useful tools. They serve as a source of knowledge and insight for
your investors and help to grow the existing relationship. These tools
build credibility and demonstrate value even before a formal relationships
starts.
Richard Wilson: That is great. I know that this really works, and our firm
uses educational materials such as our free e-book on hedge funds for this
same reason. We provide something that benefits our potential clients,
and then when they have a capital-raising or training-related need we can
be ready for them when they need us. I think that your fund is ahead of
90 percent of the hedge funds I speak to in realizing that if they invest
their time and energy into giving away educational content, free training,
webinars, resources, and so on, it will come back to them several times
over through a greater total and more loyal investors.
What are your top five tips to hedge fund managers who have less than
$100 million in assets under management but would like to improve the
institutional quality of their fund?
Pratik Sharma: I would suggest investing in your web site. Try to get feedback
from trusted contacts. Have a real USP that isn’t just fluff—then you will
attract more investors than others in the industry.
Richard Wilson: Besides AUM, What do you believe is most important for a
hedge fund to focus on improving when thinking about institutionalizing
a hedge fund? Risk management? Trading processes? Research? Pedigree?
Pratik Sharma: Risk management is trading. It is the way one really generates
alpha. Also, internal risk management (governance, controls) is key.
Richard Wilson: Agreed. I think that strict, independent governance and
controls are something that will be a must-have in five years instead of a
nice-to-have, as they seemingly are right now.

Page 145 of 193

Hedge Fund Marketing Pro

57

Now that your hedge fund has grown a bit and has been around for a
few years what do you wish you had known when you first started your
hedge fund? What should every new hedge fund start-up know that you
wish someone had told you?
Pratik Sharma: This business is the best in the world. It is still all about doing
the best for your customers. The arrogance and nonalignment of interests
in hedge funds has been atrocious over the last several years. Investors
aren’t stupid and they aren’t going to put up with it anymore. Embrace
that as a differentiator, but recognize that you have to do it and not just
say it.
Richard Wilson: Great to hear that from a marketer. What three tips or
pieces of valuable advice could you lend to emerging hedge fund managers
or new hedge fund start-ups? What valuable lessons have you learned
from starting your fund, trading in the fund, and growing it that others
in similar situations could learn from?
Pratik Sharma: Get good service providers. Size is not necessarily better.
Some good administrators focus on early stage managers. They can be a
tremendous help.
Richard Wilson: I agree. While sometimes the brand or reputation of the
service provider may be important, I do think that there are times when
large service providers leave small hedge fund clients behind in terms of
service.
How long did it take you to launch your fund? About how much did
it cost in total, and what was the most difficult or time-consuming part
about this process?
Pratik Sharma: We formed an offshore fund for India, which took three
months. Regulatory approvals were the most time-consuming part.
Onshore U.S. Limited Partnership (LP) took 30 days. The most difficult part is that the manager has to manage the various entities involved.
It is a project, and if you don’t stay on top of all the moving pieces, it will
result in delays and increased expense.
Richard Wilson: Can you share a few mistakes or setbacks you encountered
that were painful and didn’t have to be experienced?
Pratik Sharma: Don’t have a bad or nondescript USP. You will get laughed
out of some offices.
Richard Wilson: Definitely worth repeating that point—I agree. What are
the top three resources or tools that you use to run your hedge fund that
are worth more than anything else? What are the most valuable resources
that you could recommend to others?
Pratik Sharma: SalesForce.com and ConstantContact.com are probably two
of the most useful tools.

Page 146 of 193

58

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

Richard Wilson: What is the critical issue that determines whether you work
with a particular consultant, service provider, or marketer? What is the
one thing that you always look for? Good service? Recommendations
from others? Branding? Experience?
Pratik Sharma: It is a bit hard to describe. The best way I can articulate
it is “make sure there is a good fit” in terms of experience, in terms of
expectations, and in terms of personalities. These service providers are
extensions of your organization. You want to make sure that you feel
comfortable having them interact with your clients. Your clients will call
them.
Richard Wilson: Exactly. I think that in some businesses you may use a
service provider to get Internet, or to find new talent for your team, and
they are truly outside of your organization. In the hedge fund industry,
though, you are really outsourcing large chunks of your operations and
processes to these firms, so this is an important decision, whether it is a
third-party marketing, prime brokerage, or fund administration firm.
What is the most challenging aspect of week-to-week or month-tomonth operations? How has your firm adapted to this challenge? What
tools have you found that help you manage this?
Pratik Sharma: The challenge is not to get sidetracked, and to stay focused.
The markets are volatile and you can’t let market volatility and resulting
mood swings get you off track. The way to do it is to set firm schedules
and to stick to them as much as possible. Plus, raising capital can’t be
done on a drive-by basis. You must deliver value in every interaction to
truly differentiate yourself. Just because you’re ready to take the capital
doesn’t mean that your potential client is ready to make the allocation.
You can’t really control that. Make sure that you are delivering value, are
seen as trustworthy, and that you have a definable, unique edge. When
the client is ready, he or she will write the ticket.
Richard Wilson: Great advice there. I believe that what you just said there
will be worth more than 10 times the cost of this book to anyone who
is looking to raise more capital for their fund. Over 90 percent of the
hedge funds I speak to are not in a life cycle or track record position to
attract a third-party marketer, yet they would like to have an outside party
complete their marketing for them. This is because they barely have time
to do marketing and they are not marketers at heart. What happens is the
portfolio manager or trader puts in three to five hours a week towards
marketing and, like you said, this becomes a drive-by effort and not much
capital is raised. I truly think that most hedge funds need to develop their
own internal marketing resources, tools, processes, pipelines, and talent.
That is how things finally get done in the majority of cases I have seen.
Thanks for sharing that bit.

Page 147 of 193

Hedge Fund Marketing Pro

59

Do you have any other pieces of advice related to operational hedge
fund best practices that you could share with other managers in the
industry?
Pratik Sharma: This business is all about raising capital. That is not to say
you can’t get anywhere without performance, but what differentiates a
hedge fund from a person trading in his gym shorts is the ability to raise
capital. Invest your time and money accordingly.

HENDRIK KLEIN, CEO, DAVINCI INVEST LTD.
The final interview related to fund operations and institutionalization is
with Hendrik Klein, CEO of Da Vinci Invest Ltd., a Zurich-based hedge
fund professional whom I also interviewed for Chapter 2.
Richard Wilson: What have you learned that has enabled your firm to raise
capital to this point where you are managing a healthy stable level of
assets?
Hendrik Klein: It is challenging. Investors want liquidity, return, and no
risk. Additionally, you should have a Goldman Sachs partner background
with Harvard graduation.
Richard Wilson: I agree that pedigree is very important to investors regardless of their location. In the United States, and at least with my experience
in working with UK-based groups, most institutional investors are demanding $80 million to $100 million or more in single strategies managed
by fund managers. Is that what you have found as well?
Hendrik Klein: The fund volume should be above $50 million USD minimum, although $100 million USD would not hurt, and a three-year track
record. The rest is a numbers game and the discipline to follow up on
every lead in 24 hours.
Richard Wilson: How has your firm gotten past the “under $100 million, no
institutional-quality operations” objection in the past? Gone to smaller
investors who don’t hold this objection? Met with investors face-to-face?
Any lessons learned here?
Hendrik Klein: Cooperate with other asset managers, go to family offices,
smaller funds of funds, and retail investors.
Richard Wilson: How long is your typical investor sales cycle? Eight months?
Twelve months? Eighteen months?
Hendrik Klein: On average, our sales cycle for new investors is eight months.
Richard Wilson: What is the most valuable lesson you have learned while
raising capital over the past few years?
Hendrik Klein: Follow up in 24 hours. Keep it simple.

Page 148 of 193

60

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

Richard Wilson: What do you see as your main challenge in raising new
capital for your hedge fund?
Hendrik Klein: Explaining our compelling strategy in a way so that investors
feel comfortable to invest. Getting over the $50 million fund size with
every fund that we offer.
Richard Wilson: What types of marketing materials do you use to market
your fund to new potential investors? Anything really unique?
Hendrik Klein: Presentation, DDQ, factsheet, references, press releases, articles in magazines.
Richard Wilson: Do you use a CRM system? How do you track important
investor relationships or potential investor contact details?
Hendrik Klein: Yes, we use SalesForce, but we want to switch to Emnis in
2010.

BONUS VIDE O MODULE
To watch a video on the components of a hedge fund marketing system, please type this URL into your Web browser: http://
HedgeFundTraining.com/Marketing-System

CHAPTER SUMMARY
Tassini Capital Management was making several mistakes that emerging
hedge funds often make. These mistakes included:
•
•
•

Not strategically focusing on certain types of investors.
Not developing a system to track investor pipeline development.
Not developing or communicating an institutional-quality fund business
while speaking with investor firms.

Discovering these flaws, thanks to their relationship with the third party
marketer, led to several changes. The most important of these included:
•
•
•
•
•

Updating marketing materials.
Obtaining investor databases.
Focusing their investor prospects.
Communicating a clear competitive advantage.
Employing a multiple-modality marketing and sales approach.

Page 149 of 193

Hedge Fund Marketing Pro

61

This chapter covered many additional practical capital-raising best practices, unique positioning techniques being used by hedge funds today, and
a hedge fund marketing case study. Here are some key lessons that can be
taken from this chapter:
•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

Develop a list of 10 to 15 publications you wish your hedge fund would
be featured in and approach them one-by-one.
Write for audiences and speak at events full of prime prospects, not
competitors.
Despite the constant search, there is no person or resource that is a real
shortcut to raising lots of capital for a hedge fund.
To employ educational marketing, use folders, white papers,
PowerPoint presentations, speaking, and writing, and focus on wealth
management and financial planner markets.
Use the “Four Why Tool” instead of constantly seeking new investors
or larger investor databases.
The difference between a $1 bill and $100 bill is the message on the
paper. Don’t underestimate the power of strong sales writing.
Sales cycles for hedge fund investors may range from two to three
months for high net worth investors to eight or more months for institutional investors.
Webinars are a useful tool, and you must have a USP or you will be
ignored.
Use stories and personalized signatures and pictures in your marketing
materials.
At any one time, target 50 to 150 investor prospects per marketing and
sales team member.

Free Resource: Learn more about hedge fund marketing at
ThirdPartyMarketing.com.

REVIEW QUESTIONS
1. What percent of institutional investors will not invest unless they
understand the investment being made?
a. 55
b. 44
c. 78
d. 88

Page 150 of 193

62

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

2. While employing public relations tactics, target
publications in
which you would aim to have your hedge fund or principal featured,
and begin approaching them.
a. 10 to 15
b. 20 to 30
c. 15 to 25
d. 70 to 80
3. True or false: Somewhere around 50 percent of your competitors are
probably ignoring copy writing best practices.
4. Hendrik Klein suggests that investors want liquidity, returns, and
.
a. Tax assistance.
b. No risk.
c. Advice.
5. True or false: Large service providers are always better as they provide
more stable services and a more experienced team of professionals.
6. True or false: The “Four Why Tool” helps determine the real root
cause of a problem so you can directly solve that instead of focusing on
symptoms of a core issue your hedge fund is facing.
7. True or false: Multi-modality marketing material sets means having your
marketing materials translated into at least two different languages each
quarter.
8. The four main focuses of your PowerPoint presentation should be:
a. Team pedigree, returns, transparency, and risk controls.
b. Team pedigree, returns, financial controls, and risk controls.
c. Team pedigree, experience, investment process, and risk controls.
9. Do not ever let your PowerPoint presentation reach more than
pages in length.
a. 10
b. 20
c. 30
d. 60
10. The most important part of your speeches, e-mails, or sales letter communications are the:
a. Conclusions.
b. Personalized style.
c. Headlines and introductions.
Answers: To view the answers to these questions, please see http://
HedgeFundTraining.com/Answers.

Page 151 of 193

Frequently Asked Hedge Fund
Questions

CHAPTER 5

You are your greatest asset. Put your time, effort, and money into
training, grooming, and encouraging your greatest asset.
—Tom Hopkins

his chapter covers the most frequently asked questions about hedge funds.
Our company receives over 150,000 emails each year, many of them
asking the same questions that are covered here in this chapter.

T

H ED GE FUNDS 101
Question: What is a hedge fund?
Answer: A hedge fund is a private investment vehicle in which investors
in the fund typically are charged a management fee plus a performancebased fee. While this definition has been true for some time now, there
are dozens of variations of hedge funds, and many look a lot like private
equity funds and venture capital funds. While the hedge fund industry has
been organically growing in real size, it is also growing simply due to the
application of the name hedge fund to an increasing number of investment
vehicles. Typical hedge fund management fees are between 1 and 2 percent,
and typical performance fees range from 15 to 30 percent. Investors are
drawn to hedge funds because they have strong incentives to perform very
well in order to take down a large dollar figure as part of the performance
fee charged by the fund. While some would say this is a light version of the
definition, the truth is that the model has expanded in so many directions
that any more details would leave out billions of dollars worth of hedge fund

137

Page 152 of 193

138

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

strategies and models. The industry truly is defined by the fees the funds now
charge and how those are structured to the investor.
Question: What is a fund of hedge funds?
Answer: A fund of hedge funds is an investment fund that allows a single
investor broad access to many different hedge funds through one investment.
The fund of hedge funds typically researches dozens or hundreds of hedge
fund managers in order to optimize and invest for clients in a basket of
well-performing hedge funds. A fund of hedge funds earns fees on top of
the hedge fund management and performance fees already embedded in this
type of investment. Investors are drawn to funds of hedge funds for the
superior research and due diligence conducted and the diversity of hedge
fund risk exposures that may be found in these vehicles.
Question: What is the difference between a multistrategy hedge fund
and a fund of hedge funds?
Answer: A multistrategy hedge fund is a fund that runs multiple strategies such as long/short, 130/30, global macro, merger arbitrage, and so on,
all in the same fund. This fund will typically charge a single layer of fees
similar to any other hedge fund. This contrasts with a fund of hedge funds,
which could be focused on one or two hedge fund strategies or many in a diversified model where an additional layer of fees is applied for the research,
due diligence, and risk management research that went into constructing the
portfolio of unique hedge fund managers in the fund.
Question: What hedge fund books would you recommend reading?
Answer: We offer a free-to-download 200-plus-page e-book on hedge
funds, online at http://HedgeFundsBook.com. We also suggest visiting
HedgeFundBookStore.com to review the short list of books that our team
has selected for the CHP Designation Program. We reviewed over 55
books on hedge funds before selecting this group of texts for our training
program.
Question: What is the role of an institutional investment consultant?
Answer: Institutional investment consultants are investment advisers to
mainly large institutional investors such as pension funds, foundations, endowments, or family offices. Investment decisions are often made with the
advice of these consultants, and sometimes parts or whole portfolios are
placed under the control and investment decision making of these institutional consultants. Hedge fund managers are typically interested in developing strong relationships with institutional consultants because those
managers with over $80 million or $100 million in assets can often build
relationships with these consultants and possibly gain allocations from their
institutional investor clients.
Question: How strong is the industry outside of the United States and
Europe?

Page 153 of 193

Frequently Asked Hedge Fund Questions

139

Answer: The hedge fund industry is diverse and spread out around
the world. Australia, Brazil, South Africa, and Russia are all hubs of CTA
fund and hedge fund activity. I met with a CTA fund in Sã o Paulo, Brazil,
last year for lunch and he mentioned that he personally knew of over 300
funds similar to his which are based in Sã o Paulo. While many international
locations may lack more than a handful of $750 million-plus hedge funds,
they house thousands of small to medium-size hedge fund managers who
together control a lot of assets and hire a respectable number of employees
as well.
Question: What is the quickest way to gain more knowledge about
hedge funds right now?
Answer: Many times I hear from professionals who have been reading
HedgeFundBlogger.com, who have read this book, or who read our hedge
fund e-book and they are hungry to learn more. Here are my top tips on
moving up the learning curve on everything hedge funds:
1. Our free 200-page hedge fund e-book (http://HedgeFundsBook.com).
2. Sign up for Google Alerts for the terms “Hedge Fund,” “Hedge Funds,”
and so on. This will allow Google to e-mail you once a week as new
Web stories or blog articles come out on hedge funds.
3. Subscribe to HedgeFundBlogger.com and receive our daily e-mail
newsletter about the hedge fund industry.
4. Subscribe to five educational blogs on the topic of hedge funds. Suggestions include HedgeFundBlogger.com, Fintag.com, FT AlphaVille
(FTalphaville.ft.com), and the Albourne Village newsletter found at
Village.Albourne.com.

HE DG E FUND OPERATIONS
Question: I am a solid trader with a solid back-tested model. Should I start
a hedge fund?
Answer: The hard truth is probably not. Most traders do not have the
level of pedigree or supporting capital that is needed to launch and grow a
fund from the ground up. That said, new hedge funds are launched daily,
and many funds do make it to a profitable level of assets under management
(AUM) and do very well. It is important to do your research before you spend
any money on service providers or legal formation. Work up your budget,
write a business plan, write a marketing plan, meet with potential friends
and family investors, and speak with other small hedge fund managers.
Raising capital and growing a long track record that will attract investors
both take a long time and a lot of patience.

Page 154 of 193

140

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

Question: What is one operational fund management process you could
provide me with that I can take away and really use in my business today?
I need something low cost as we manage less than $100 million in assets as
a fund.
Answer: One person who has affected me in business has been William
Edward Deming. He once said, “If you can’t describe what you are doing
as a process, you don’t know what you are doing.” I think this also goes
along with another popular business quote: “What gets documented gets
improved.”
Most investment funds and family offices that I have worked with do not
have an investor cultivation process or pipeline drawn out as a process. They
do not have their ongoing investor communication strategy documented,
and in many places the only documentation of their investment process is
at a very high level in their marketing materials. I think many hedge funds,
portfolio managers, and capital raisers could benefit from using PowerPoint
presentations or a free program such as Bubbl (www.bubbl.us) to document
their processes.
This documenting of critical processes takes little time and costs nothing to do, but it allows you to step back from the process and evaluate it,
improve it, or delegate where appropriate. Our firm recently used Bubbl and
PowerPoint together to describe a business process we were completing ourselves, and we were able to use this not only internally but also externally as
we trained a third party to whom we decided to outsource some of this work.
The processes I have found valuable to document are:
•
•
•
•

Investor acquisition process.
Current investor communication strategy.
Hiring new employees.
Managing your portfolio on an ongoing basis.

Question: What exactly does a fund administration firm do? What is
the scope of their services?
Answer: A fund administration firm helps with the day-to-day operations of running a hedge fund. Activities that typical administration firms
may take on for a fund include:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Monthly accounting.
Tax preparation assistance.
Processing of subscriptions and redemptions.
Third-party controls.
Audit assistance.
Anti–money laundering (AML) compliance.

Page 155 of 193

Frequently Asked Hedge Fund Questions
•
•
•
•
•

141

Investor communications.
Daily reconciliation of trades.
Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) tracking.
Operational assistance.
Management company accounting.

Question: What are your top five pieces of advice for a hedge fund that
is just now starting up?
Answer: Our firm speaks with over 300 hedge fund start-ups and emerging hedge fund managers each year. We typically hear from managers when
they need help selecting service providers such as a formation attorney or
prime brokerage firm, or we get requests to help these funds raise capital for
their new funds. Here are our top five tips for hedge fund start-ups:
1. It is harder to raise capital than you think, so get all of your capitalraising processes, investor database resources, and sales professionals in
place before you start your fund.
2. Focus on developing a unique investment process and competitive
advantage in the industry: What unique edge can you constantly be
building?
3. Risk management and institutionalization are key for your fund. Focus
on how to be more transparent than your competitors. Decide where
you can invest early in technology, research, or pedigree to raise the
institutional quality of your fund offering.
4. Investors want to see that you have skin in the game. Make sure you do
have some of yourself invested and communicate that to investors.
5. Face-to-face relationships work. Meet with as many potential investors,
service providers, and consultants in person as possible. This leads to
more trust, momentum, and productivity in everything you touch.
Question: Do you have any suggestions on how we could run our hedge
fund business better from an operational or business point of view so that
we are seen as more of an authority in the industry?
Answer: Sure. One way in which people are influenced every day is
through our orienting reflex. The orienting reflex is the process we go
through while reacting to something novel, new, or mysterious. It is what
makes first dates, roller coasters, and vacations to exotic islands so enjoyable.
When a loud alarm goes off we stop and ask ourselves why it is going
off and whether it has any impact on us. If you are in the middle of a
movie at your local theater and the fire alarm starts to go off, everyone will
look around for a minute before taking action. Each person is orienting

Page 156 of 193

142

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

themselves to this new situation and combination of variables, and they are
looking for instructions from other people’s actions, their past experiences,
or some sort of authority such as a movie theater employee. This very
moment, while the movie audience is determining what to do next, is when
they are most easily influenced. This same rule applies to changes in stock
market conditions and the reaction of Wall Street analysts and investment
news broadcasters.
If you can be the person to suggest a strategy or provide additional
credible evidence when others are still orienting to a new environment, you
can be very influential very quickly.
You can apply this in your fund by being the first to address an industry
development such as new investor regulations, or an industry-changing fraud
event like Madoff. Interpret these events and focus on making sense of what
will likely come next. This can be done on a smaller level with events that
come up each quarter in the industry.
Question: How can I network with other hedge fund managers and
industry professionals?
Answer: The best way to network with other hedge fund managers
and industry professionals is through the Hedge Fund Group, a free-tojoin association of industry professionals. This group now has over 30,000
members from around the world, and you may join today by visiting
HedgeFundGroup.org and clicking on the “Join” link at the top right-hand
side of the home page.

H ED GE FUND MARKETING AND SALES

BONUS VIDE O MODULE
To watch a 45-minute video on hedge fund marketing best
practices, please type this URL into your Web browser: http://
HedgeFundTraining.com/Capital-Raising-Strategies.

Question: What does a typical third-party marketing arrangement look like?
What are the payouts like?
Answer: Third-party marketing arrangements typically involve the marketer receiving 20 percent of both the management and performance fees
on assets raised for five years, seven years, or in perpetuity for as long as
the investor remains invested in the fund. In addition to the fee sharing,

Page 157 of 193

Frequently Asked Hedge Fund Questions

143

most third-party marketers will also charge some level of a retainer, which
can range from $1,000/month to $12,000/month, to help cover the ongoing
marketing costs of the marketer. If your hedge fund is looking to engage a
third-party marketer, please read some of our free advice on this niche area
of business at ThirdPartyMarketing.com, a free educational e-magazine on
the third-party marketing industry.
Question: We are looking for capital. Would a hedge fund invest in my
real estate venture or private company?
Answer: The hedge fund universe is diverse and there are hedge funds
that invest in real estate or in private companies, but these are few and
far between. You will need to obtain a specialized database of these types
of hedge fund managers, or screen carefully in one of the large hedge fund
database providers found online. For further information on databases, both
free and paid, please see InvestorDatabases.com, HedgeFund.Net, HedgeFundResearch.com, or FamilyOfficesDatabase.com for more information.
Question: How long will it take us to raise capital after we launch our
fund?
Answer: The sales cycle is 6 to 9 months long in retail channels and 9 to
18 months long in institutional channels. This assumes that your fund has a
three- to five-year or longer track record and a high enough level of AUM to
approach each of these markets. Raising capital from investors other than
friends and family in your first two years is very challenging. The best route
of action is to consider seed capital or approach high net worth (HNW)
accredited investors for potential investments. Even the most experienced
third-party marketers and capital raisers need 9 to 12 months to close on a
significant level of assets, and many need two to three years to really work
through their contact Rolodex and use all of their methods of attracting
capital to clients. It is important to know this up front when you start a
fund, both for budgeting and for setting reasonable expectations of anyone
you hire or bring on as a third-party marketer for the fund.
Question: Can you provide us some tips on how to develop relationships
with investors? Is there a process we could follow at a very high level?
Answer: Yes, there is. I was making my way through some marketing
training materials last year from Mr. Frank Kern and came across a marketing process which may seem somewhat like common sense, but it helps to
think about these things to ensure that you are presenting a complete marketing message to your potential fund investors. In the marketing training
program, Kern suggests you follow this four-step process while moving your
prospects through different phases of engaging your firm:
1. Interest and desire. Provide a white paper, speech, update on your perspective of the markets, which catches the attention of your potential
investor.

Page 158 of 193

144

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

2. Trust. Develop a relationship with the potential investor. Build trust
by providing client quotes, industry recommendations, and comparison
analytics between your fund and others.
3. Proof . Show proof that your fund has a high pedigree team, detailed
consistent investment processes in place, and an advantage of some type
which can be tangibly displayed or confirmed.
4. Sample. Allow the investor to start with a small minimum investment,
provide examples of what other investors like them have done in the
past, or present case studies on three different types of typical investors
that you serve so they can imagine being in that position.
The descriptions of these four steps are less important than the process itself. If you can grab the attention of the investor, build a relationship
with them, provide proof of your abilities and performance, and then combine that with a sample, you will be several steps ahead of much of your
competition.

BONUS VIDE O MODULE
To watch a video on the strategy of similar others, please type this URL
into your Web browser: http://HedgeFundTraining.com/Marketer

Question: How could we improve our PowerPoint pitch book for investors?
Answer: This will depend on its current state, your strategy, and your
target investors, but following are a few of the most common tips that I
often provide to fund managers looking to improve their PowerPoint presentations:
•

•

Quarterly update. Most potential investors will have already seen your
one-pager, which is updated monthly. The presentation should mention
your performance but the main purpose of it is to present your team’s
pedigree, investment process, and risk controls. Hire a professional editor to spend an hour reviewing the presentation after each major review;
this costs less than $100.
Three areas of focus. As previously indicated, the three areas of focus in
the PowerPoint presentation should be team pedigree and experience,
investment process, and risk controls. Many managers tend to be very

Page 159 of 193

Frequently Asked Hedge Fund Questions

145

high level while describing their investment process and risk controls,
frequently using terms that are seen too often in generic industry presentations. You have to let out enough of your secret sauce in your
marketing materials so that others know there is actually something
there. Solid returns alone, even in these recent markets, are not enough.
You must provide some explanation of your consistent process, system,
and parameters for operating. Here is some advice on each of the three
most important sections of your PowerPoint presentation:
1. Team pedigree. Take the time to describe all of the relevant experience that your team holds, and try to explain those experiences in
ways that mesh well with your firm’s investment process and approach to managing risk. Many types of experience can be valuable
to managing a portfolio of investments, but sometimes that connection needs to be spelled out in the presentation. If after creating this
section you realize that your team consists of just one or two professionals without a long industry track record, consider beefing up
your close advisory board with industry veterans and experts in risk
and portfolio management. Many times investors will ask how much
of a fund principal’s own assets are invested in the funds. Regardless
of the exact dollar amount, if 80 to 90 percent or more of your own
liquid assets are invested in this fund, check with your compliance officer about noting this in your presentation materials. Many investors
turn to hedge funds due to an alignment of interests, and providing
evidence of this in your fund sometimes helps. It is important to retain capital-raising talent as well, but without proper portfolio and
risk management professionals or advisory professionals in place,
you may just spin your wheels. As you expand your team, be sure
to include a team hierarchy tree in your presentation. This may include your advisory team and a few service providers or research
groups with whom you work daily and upon whom you rely for
operations.
2. Investment process. This is most commonly the area of PowerPoint
presentations that needs improvement. I have found it easiest to try
to break your investment process into three to five steps, which could
then be broken down further during a due diligence phone call or in
meetings with potential investors. I would start with a single page
displaying the three- to five-step investment process your firm uses,
followed by one to two pages explaining each step of the process
in great detail. Describe the tools you use, the decision-making process, research inputs, parameters for refining the universe of potential
investments, and triggers that may affect how the portfolio is constructed at each step. Following this, consider adding another page

Page 160 of 193

146

•

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

to the PowerPoint on buy and sell decision triggers: When do you
trim a position? When do you sell? When are positions cleared out
completely? What stop-loss provisions are in place? Providing a few
trading case studies in this part of the PowerPoint may be helpful.
Use real-life examples from the previous quarter and update these
frequently so that analysts will be able to read into your decisions in
context of the recent market conditions.
3. Risk management techniques. Risk management techniques can be
placed in a separate section of the presentation or tacked onto the end
of your investment process section in the PowerPoint. It is hard to
go overboard on explaining with granularity what risk management
techniques your firm employees. Start with the status quo: What
tools, research, stop-loss provisions, and systems are used? Next
move on to proprietary models you may be using, exclusive trading
research, or experience that provides additional insight into how you
manage risk in your portfolio.
More is more. It is often better to go overboard with details on your
investment processes and risk management details than not to provide
enough information. That said, never let the presentation grow to over
25 pages unless you have three or more products being presented in
a single presentation. Getting your PowerPoint right is about balancing transparency and granularity against confusion and information
overload. Everyone is busy, and often getting someone to invest three
minutes to review your one-pager can be a challenge of its own.

Creating a solid PowerPoint presentation is a task of continual improvement, but if you start with these tips it should set you above 50 percent of
the sub–$200 million hedge funds that we often speak with.
Question: What should we look at while interviewing a third-party
marketer we may hire?
Answer: Evaluating a potential marketer should be as rigorous as
completing a request for proposal (RFP) for an institutional consultant. A
partnership is being formed, and investing time and money with the wrong
professionals can be expensive in terms of both real dollars and opportunity costs. Areas to cover while conducting due diligence on a third-party
marketer include:
•
•
•
•

Past work experience.
Current licensing and broker check.
Asset-raising history throughout their careers.
Asset-raising track record while working together in the firm.

Page 161 of 193

Frequently Asked Hedge Fund Questions
•
•
•
•
•

•

147

Referrals from past hedge fund clients.
Number of years experience.
Scope of their distribution channel expertise.
Number of total current clients.
Potential commitment of time in terms of hours per week and duration
of the contract.
Personality and culture of the third-party marketing group.

Question: What trends have you seen in terms of the types of investors
now out there in the hedge fund industry?
Answer: What I find is that overall, while most marketers’ experiences
are very similar, each investor is different, just as the due diligence processes
in different firms vary. Hedge fund investors typically fall into one of these
four categories:
1. The “Follow me” hedge fund investor. Most of these investors make up
your pool of family, friends, co-workers, and people you interact with
regularly. Usually, these people don’t understand how to perform the
necessary due diligence in making a decision to invest. This group also
tends to make assumptions. For example, if a manager holds a degree
from Harvard or has experience from a top financial firm, this fact alone
would persuade these investors to follow suit, ignoring the probability
of fraud. In addition, they heavily rely on personal acquaintance and
recommendations from either you or someone you may know. If you
ask for a check, and they trust you, this group will most likely give one
to you.
2. The “Send me a prospectus” hedge fund investor. This group is a
bit more sophisticated and conducts a minimum amount of due diligence into the manager’s performance. Once they are satisfied with the
performance on paper, they will meet with and usually shower the manager with questions regarding every aspect of the fund, including returns,
performance, strategies, and risks. What is written and spoken by the
manager is taken on faith and the information is not properly verified
by the investor.
3. The investigating hedge fund investor. This type of investor is sometimes
considered a nuisance by busy professionals who might be caught offguard by his questions. Not only will the investor keep the manager’s
number on speed dial, but he will perform due diligence above and
beyond the previous types and will go so far as to understand the entire
operation of the fund as if he were the manager. This type will also
interview members of the manager’s staff and will look into the balance

Page 162 of 193

148

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

sheet, cash controls, reporting, and other functions not directly related
to performance.
4. The independent hedge fund investor. The due diligence collected by
this investor is thoroughly reviewed independently. Investors in this category know that independent opinions are extremely important. They
will contact the auditor, custodian, and administrator in addition to
the SEC and/or state securities agency. They won’t sign on the dotted line until they are satisfied that they have independently verified
everything that matters, including assets under management, returns,
and even a year-end audit. They fully understand the risks that are
involved.
Nobody likes to be put in a box, but it is important to realize that
the types of investors can vary widely, so you should prepare an array of
marketing materials, from brief one-pagers to very detailed institutionalquality PowerPoint presentations and third-party analyses for those most
scrutinizing parties. My experience has been that marketing materials that
are first built to the highest standard and later summarized into smaller,
dumbed-down pieces can be very effective and versatile.
Question: When marketing to financial advisers for your hedge fund,
what steps do you need to take dealing with these guys? Is it any different
from dealing with family offices?
Answer: Marketing to financial advisers is much different than marketing to single and multifamily offices. Here are the main differences between
the two:
•

•

•

•

Family offices have more established due diligence procedures, often
involving consultants or internal analysts who do nothing but look at
hedge funds or alternative investment products.
Financial advisers have lower minimum asset levels for what they will
consider investing. Ninety percent of family offices only seriously consider investing in hedge funds with at least $75 to $100 million, and
many require $250 $300 million or even $1 billion in assets under
management.
Family offices are more tight-lipped. It will take more effort to develop
a relationship, meet in person, and get clear feedback on why a hedge
fund is or is not a good fit for what they are looking for.
Family offices are harder to identify in the first place. Financial advisers
are easier to find, there are more of them, and they advertise more
openly. Some family offices advertise but many stay below the radar,
and some purposefully don’t even have a web site.

Page 163 of 193

Frequently Asked Hedge Fund Questions
•

•

•

•

149

While family offices service high net worth investors almost exclusively,
many financial advisers work with a broad spectrum of client types.
This might require more caution by them and by your fund in marketing products to them. It might also mean sorting through more financial
advisers to find one with several HNW clients.
In my experience, financial advisers seem much more sensitive to and
motivated by how they will earn a commission or income from the
transaction, whereas many family offices charge rich enough fees that
this is less of an issue.
While some financial advisers may take 16 to 24 months to really get
on board with a relevant hedge fund manager, understand your investment process, and possibly invest, most will come to terms a bit before
then. Family offices, by contrast, often take 18 to 24 months just to
complete their due diligence and committee meetings; it is a very long
sales process.
Both family offices and financial advisers require genuine relationshipbuilding efforts and tenacity.

From a legal standpoint there may be other precautions your fund should
take, but I am not a legal expert so I can’t provide any guidance in that
space.
Question: Richard, from a capital-raising perspective, what would you
say is the time frame to raise money (say $10 million or more) for a small,
start-up hedge fund with no name recognition and with principals who have
no name recognition and no pedigree in the alternative investment world?
I would say 12 months at best. What do you think?
Answer: I would say 16 to 20 months would be realistic if they keep
their heads down and have a great team and a solid investment process.
Those are big if’s, though—it is easy to get distracted or discouraged. The
first fund I marketed took 9 months straight of cold-calling, e-mails, and
conferences to raise a single dollar, but after 18 months we were raising
$1 million a week in new assets.
Question: Do you have a quick takeaway lesson that I could apply to my
business development work for our family of hedge funds? There is always
so much to get done and so little time to do it in. What advice would you
give us?
Answer: Following is a quote I used recently while speaking with an
investment fund manager who was looking to raise capital. He was doing
so by approaching every investor he could possibly speak to. He was explaining how his firm has so few resources compared to their $1 billion
competitors.

Page 164 of 193

150

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

You can take a $5 disposable camera and take it out of the box,
stand 10 feet from a building, and take a great picture that will
be developed and look good if not great. You could stand in that
same position with a $10,000 camera with every gadget, lens, and
a tripod, and it will not take as good a picture if you do not do one
thing: Focus.
—Brian Tracy
The point: You can beat your competition with a smaller staff, less financial resource, and less experience if you just learn to focus. Focus on
your top prospective investors, focus on local potential investors, and focus
exclusively on the types of investors that are most likely to make allocations
to your fund. If you can dial in on these three areas—your hot prospect
list, local investors and the right investor mix (family offices, wealth management, pension funds, etc.)—then you can really cover a lot of ground
quickly.
Question: For this question and answer exchange I actually went to
an outside expert, Richard Dukas from Dukas PR, who works with many
medium- and large-size hedge fund managers, and I asked him: Why should
hedge funds invest in PR, especially when their ability to speak with the
press is restricted by law in many places?
Answer: Presently, most new hedge funds are launched with money
from friends and family, while more established players can launch new
funds from a pool of existing investors. Hedge funds are prohibited from
advertising and marketing. (Once contacted by a potential investor, a hedge
fund can send out marketing material.) Thus, in order to attract new investors, hedge funds need to find a way to get their name out there. One
way, of course, is through the media.
Most financial journalists have contact with a hedge fund manager or
two. These managers are excellent sources of information, though much of
it is negatively directed towards companies. As such, much of the back-andforth between the media and hedge fund managers is off the record. The
SEC’s new rules, however, are aimed at transparency. With competition
among hedge funds fierce, it certainly behooves hedge fund managers to use
their investment expertise to help the public, and drum up investors in the
process.
Most hedge fund managers are still extremely reticent when it comes to
speaking to the media. What I’ve found is that it’s very difficult to solicit
managers to work with a PR firm.
Dukas says that the reticence comes from a feeling that hedge fund
managers should be secretive and not share their ideas with anyone but
their own investors. However, the new SEC regulations, combined with the

Page 165 of 193

Frequently Asked Hedge Fund Questions

151

movement towards activist investing, may change that. Maybe (hedge fund
managers will realize) what they’re doing is not so secretive after all.
As an example of a hedge fund that has embraced the concept of working
with the media, look no further than our client Haven Advisors, which has
racked up considerable press over the past few years.
I mentioned that competition among hedge fund managers is fierce, and
it’s not going to get easier. For example, Janus Capital, one of the world’s
largest mutual fund managers, recently launched a long/short mutual fund
with the goal of absolute return. In other words, Janus is offering investors
access to a mutual fund that acts in the same way that most hedge funds act,
but without the stiff management fees. More mutual funds such as the one
launched by Janus should hit the market this year, opening up a whole new
pool of investors to the idea of hedge funds. The biggest reason, however, I
feel that hedge fund managers need PR people is the rise of activist investing.
Activist investing is not new, but for whatever reason, hedge funds
ratcheted up what we call “cage rattling” last year. The normal sequence
goes something like this:
1. A hedge fund builds up a large stake in a company by buying stock on
the open market because the fund feels the stock is undervalued.
2. The fund approaches management and the board of the company and
offers suggestions about how to unlock the value of the stock.
3. Management and the board ignore the fund, though in a noncombative
way.
4. The hedge fund gets tired of being jerked away, and publicizes its cage
rattling through an SEC filing (usually attaching letters that it has sent
the company’s management and board).
In some cases, companies capitulate, mostly because other investors
have latched onto the ideas put forth by hedge funds and begun demanding change. In other cases, companies will battle hedge funds, hoping to
eventually shake them out as investors. Regardless of the eventual outcome,
hedge funds need public relations people because companies inherently have
a public relations machine built into their organization. While hedge fund
managers complain in SEC filings and on conference calls, companies are
utilizing their public relations resources to work the media and investors.
One good example of the company-versus-fund public relations mentality is
Time Warner.
Last year, billionaire corporate raider Carl Icahn built a more than 3 percent stake in Time Warner. In doing so, Icahn began demanding a number
of changes, including a massive stock buyback and a better monetization
of Time Warner’s AOL asset. Time Warner gave in partly, announcing a
$12.5 billion stock repurchase. (Stock repurchases help companies boost

Page 166 of 193

152

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

earnings by giving existing shareholders more equity for their shares; i.e.,
existing shares become more valuable because there are fewer shares outstanding when the company buys back stock.) Time Warner, however, didn’t
do everything that Icahn asked.
When Time Warner announced a wide-ranging pact with Google, Icahn
was seemingly furious, warning the company ahead of the deal that it was
making a mistake. Time Warner, with its PR machine in full gear, basically
blew off Icahn, who was working the media in his own way. The end result
was a deal that Time Warner wanted and was generally hailed for, and a
deal that Icahn apparently hates. At last check, Icahn was having difficulty
finding potential candidates for a reconstituted board that he wants to install
at Time Warner. Negative PR towards Icahn, no doubt, has contributed to
this difficulty.
The main point to take home here is that there are public relations
strategies and campaigns which hedge fund managers can keep in mind and
follow. There are ethical and legal ways to promote or position a fund; it
just takes someone who has been there before to accomplish this.
Question: How are in-house hedge fund marketers typically compensated?
Answer: There are half a dozen models for compensating in-house marketers, but typically it is structured around a relatively low base salary
combined with a small percentage of fees from new assets raised and trails
from assets raised over the past two to five years. For example, a junior to
mid-level marketer may be paid a $52,000 base salary, receive 5 percent of
fees on new assets raised this year, and receive 3 percent of fees from assets
raised over the past five years. All of this may change drastically based on
the size of the hedge fund, the investor distribution channel targeted, the
track record of the fund, and the typical sales cycle and allocation sizes that
the fund has recently experienced over the past two years. Some marketers,
if deeply experienced, ask for an equity partnership in the hedge fund to be
vested after two to four years, assuming they raise enough capital to push
them past a certain threshold set in the employment contract. This is most
likely the case with small- to medium-size hedge funds, which cannot afford
to otherwise pay for this type of help.
Question: I have done a lot of cold-calling for the hedge fund I am
marketing. Do you have any cold-calling-related advice or tips, either for us
as a team or for me individually?
Answer: Yes, I do have some tips, seven of which come immediately
to mind:
1. Don’t ask the prospect, “How are you doing?” You don’t care how
they are doing. If you cared you would have done some research on the

Page 167 of 193

Frequently Asked Hedge Fund Questions

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

153

company first and you would have something more intelligent to ask
them. This might sound harsh but it is true. Do your homework first.
Keep in mind that thousands of people cold-call and several people are
probably calling the same or very similar prospects as the ones you
are approaching. Everyone plays the numbers game, and it is natural to
have your calls or e-mails go unanswered. The goal is to develop enough
perceived value so they will take your call the next time or call you when
they are ready to buy your product or service.
Shoot for 30 to 80 phone calls a day. More is not always better, but
trying to do 6 to 10 calls an hour will keep you on your toes and always
dialing more prospects. Create a game out of the process.
Smile while you dial. The tone of your voice and word choice both
change based on your own feelings and facial expressions. Be happy
and love your job, and the people on the other end of the phone will
take notice.
Call the CEO. Always call the CEO. They are the masters of every other
department and if a call or e-mail gets forwarded from them down to
a vice president or department manager, it is much more likely to get
responded to than coming in through an analyst or associate with the
firm.
Set the table. This is a point Brian Tracy makes in the book, Eat That
Frog (Berrett-Koehler, 2007). Sit down every night and take 20 minutes
to plan out your work for the next day. Break the day into 30-minute
sessions of complete focus, completing your most important tasks before
most people even get to work in the morning.
Prepare a standard e-mail that you send out before you call. Anyone can
send a great follow-up e-mail to a phone call—the trick is getting the
prospect on the phone in the first place. Don’t have them refuse to take
your call because they do not know who you are. E-mail the prospect
first, introducing yourself and stating, in three to five sentences or less,
why you would like to have a five-minute conversation. Then call ten
minutes after sending the email out.

What is interesting about making all of these phone calls is listening to
how differently people sound and react during these conversations.
I remember one day last year I called someone who was unqualified.
It turned out that their company didn’t even provide the type of service I
was hoping to discuss. I made a joke about sending him a personal check or
Paypal payment to provide me with the type of contact I needed to connect
with, and it worked. I was not trying to be manipulative by forcing myself
to be funny to get information, I just made a dumb joke. Even after this was
obvious, this individual asked me what I needed and ended up connecting

Page 168 of 193

154

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

me with a very valuable contact. He also asked where I lived, where I grew
up, and if I had a wife or any kids. I was shocked, not while talking to
him but after I hung up. In eight months of making over 600 phone calls,
I had never once had someone be so friendly and up front like that. It was
a refreshing change from the monotone burnt-out tone of voice I usually
end up listening to. What is important is not what happened during this
phone call but after I realized how valuable a contact he had given me. I felt
strongly obligated to thank him or repay him in some way.
This has taught me to always see the humor in situations and give value
away freely to those in need of help.
One last unrelated sales phone call lesson I have learned is that if you
have highly qualified the end person that you are trying to reach, they will be
happy to talk to you because your service is relevant to them and necessary
for their success.
Question: What advice can you give me about networking with investors
and other hedge fund managers?
Answer: The best part about writing in HedgeFundBlogger.com each
day is getting the 200 to 300 e-mails a day from hedge fund professionals,
investors, and students in finance. One of the most frequent questions I get
is “Can you help our hedge fund raise capital from new investors?” I usually
refer these people on to others, as the firm I am with already has our hands
full in raising capital right now for a set number of funds.
I recently read a quote, though, from Woody Allen: “Eighty percent of
success in life is simply showing up.” Show up at your local CHP and hedge
fund association meetings. Meet face-to-face with local financial advisers,
institutional consultants, and foundations. We are looking for something
more out of our jobs than a simple paycheck, and if your fund offers potential
investors something in the parameters of what they are allowed to choose,
they might choose your product simply because of your relationship. My
favorite sales author, Jeffrey Gitomer, always says that “all things being
equal, people like to do business with their friends . . . and all things not
being equal, people still like to do business with their friends.” My quick
advice to most funds is to make sure your compliance details are in order
and then start showing up everywhere you can to start building long-term,
multiyear relationships in the industry. Maybe even join the Hedge Fund
Group for free and start networking there.
Question: Why is capital raising so difficult?
Answer: Here’s one take:
•
•

Forty-four percent of all salespeople quit trying after the first call.
Twenty-four percent quit after the second call.

Page 169 of 193

Frequently Asked Hedge Fund Questions
•
•

155

Fourteen percent quit after the third call.
Twelve percent quit trying to sell their prospect after the fourth call.

This means 94 percent of salespeople quit before the fifth phone call,
while 60 percent of all sales are made after the fourth call. This means that
the overwhelming majority of hedge fund sales professionals don’t even give
themselves a shot at selling their products.
Question: Do you have any advice for creating a contract to work with
a third-party marketer? This is our first time going through this process.
Answer: If you are hiring a third-party marketer for the first time, move
slowly. Meet with your legal counsel before you even begin to speak with
third-party marketing firms so that you know what questions to ask up front.
If possible have a contract you would prefer to work under on hand so you
do not have to take their contract and modify it to your needs. Interview and
meet face-to-face with several third-party marketers who have references and
track records of raising assets so you can start to pick out the smooth talkers
from those with real evidence of having successfully raised capital. Typically
it is a bad idea to pay front-heavy partnership fees or service initiation fees,
but it is relatively common to pay some sort of ongoing monthly or quarterly
retainer to those firms that are spending time on marketing your fund every
day. If you would like to learn more about third-party marketing before
moving forward, please see ThirdPartyMarketing.com for hundreds of free
related tips, articles, and resources.
Question: What is the difference between brokers, third-party marketers, and capital introduction professionals?
Answer: All three types of professionals raise capital for hedge funds.
Brokers can sometimes be third-party marketers, but the term usually refers
to more generic capital connectors or networkers in the industry who may
be accustomed to being paid small lump sums instead of a small percentage
of the management and performance fees over time. Third-party marketers
are independent capital raisers who use their Rolodex and refined capitalraising processes to raise the AUM levels of several fund managers at any
given time. Third-party marketers work with hedge funds, but they also
may represent mutual funds, exchange-traded funds (EFTs), private equity
groups, real estate investment trusts (REITs), and so on. Capital introduction
teams are typically run inside of investment banks, trading houses, and prime
brokerage shops. These cap intro teams, as they are often called, raise capital
for their fund clients in an effort to keep them on their trading platform. The
longer the fund remains trading in the platform, the more fees are generated
for the trading firm that supports them.

Page 170 of 193

156

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

HE DG E FUND CAREE RS

BONUS VIDEO M ODULE
To watch a video on how to start a hedge fund career, please type this
URL into your Web browser: http://HedgeFundTraining.com/Career

Question: How important is ethics or ethical policies in the hedge fund
industry?
Answer: It’s important. In the hedge fund industry you have one name
and one reputation. If you ruin that, you could have influential people in
the industry refusing to do business with you for 15 to 20 years after their
initial opinion is formed. In such a competitive, close-to-the-vest industry
where large profits can be made, the temptation to cut corners or look past
fiduciary duties is sometimes too much.
The FBI recently had agents posing as a Florida-based hedge fund manager to nab 10 individuals in five kickback schemes connected to securities
sales. The SEC charged 10 individuals and the U.S. Attorney’s office charged
6 with criminal offenses.
In each case, the posing hedge fund manager told the targets that their
actions must be kept secret because it violated his fiduciary duties, making
it explicitly known that what was going on was illegal and unethical. “This
case illustrates the Commission’s ability to work together with criminal
authorities in creative ways to uncover fraudulent schemes and to protect
our markets,” Linda Chatman Thomas, the head of the SEC’s enforcement
division, said.
Bottom line: If you are smart enough and hardworking enough to be
successful, then you don’t ever need to cut corners and blatantly break
securities laws. Innovation and relationships are the competitive advantages
that should make you extremely profitable, not cheating the system.
Question: Is there a professional training or certification program for
hedge fund professionals?
Answer: Yes, for professional training programs of many types please
visit HedgeFundTraining.com. This web site provides information on
various hedge fund training programs available, including e-learning,
DVD/workbook training, and seminar-based training for hedge fund industry professionals. For the hedge fund industry certification program,

Page 171 of 193

Frequently Asked Hedge Fund Questions

157

the Certified Hedge Fund Professional (CHP) Designation, please visit
http://HedgeFundCertification.com.

BONUS VIDE O MODULE
To watch a video on the credibility and global recognition of the
CHP Designation, please type this URL into your Web browser:
http://HedgeFundTraining.com/Credibility

Question: How do I get started working in the hedge fund industry?
Answer: There are many steps to starting a hedge fund career. Here are
six of the first ones you should take:
1. The first thing you need to do to start a career in the industry is to read
as much as you can about what is going on, how hedge funds operate,
and where you may fit in. You will waste your own time and others’
if you do not complete this first step. To learn as much as possible in
a single month, read four to five books, subscribe to four or five free
newsletters on hedge funds, and register for daily Google Alerts as well.
Make sure and read at least two books on hedge fund careers and at
least two books on hedge funds as an industry.
2. Find an area in the industry that is a realistic entry point, includes
potential work you are passionate about, and draws upon your past
work experience and strengths. Gaining employment is a competitive
process in this industry, and you will typically need to show evidence of
commitment and loyalty to get in.
3. Identify two to three hedge fund industry career mentors. Identify a
professor, hedge fund professional, or retired investment industry professional who could help provide you with advice and guidance on everything from crafting your resume to interviewing for open positions.
4. Complete one or more internships in the industry. It does not matter
where you are located, there are hedge funds on every continent looking
for help in completing their trading, potential investor, or competitive
industry research. If you put yourself out there and do not give up, you
will get into the industry and gain internships. At the beginning you may
have to work for free to gain initial experience.
5. Develop a unique value proposition to potential employers. Reflect on
your recently gained knowledge, natural abilities, past work experience,

Page 172 of 193

158

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

and education. Decide how you could effectively present that as a great
package to the hedge funds or service providers to whom you are applying for jobs. Do not be generic; come up with specific skills and abilities
that allow you to stand out.
6. Some skills that stand out to hedge fund managers include quantitative
modeling experience, Ivy League or advanced education, signs of loyalty
or passion, retention of designations such as the CHP Designation, highquality names from respected or local hedge funds on your resume, and
a stomach for a high commission/profit-sharing type position.

BONUS VIDE O MODULE
To watch a video on hedge fund internships, please type this URL into
your Web browser: http://HedgeFundTraining.com/Internships

Question: What are the top mistakes often made by hedge fund career
professionals?
Answer: There are five mistakes that our team sees hedge fund professionals and students making while trying to obtain employment in the
industry. Our team receives over 50,000 career-related e-mails a year, and
these mistakes are what we see most commonly made from this perspective
of the industry:
1. Annoying. Every week we speak with professionals who are very passionate about working in the hedge fund industry. They will do almost
anything to get a job working for a hedge fund, and they are eager to
show this while networking and during interviews. The problem is that
it can come off as overbearing and desperate. The more successful a
hedge fund or any company is, the busier they typically will be, and
the better the employer they will probably be as well. This means that
the best employers have the least patience for those potential job candidates that send in three to four e-mails a week or leave two voice mails
in a single day regarding open jobs or whether their resume has been
reviewed.
2. Overconfident. One ironic aspect about growing a career or gaining
knowledge on any niche subject is that the more you know, the more
you realize you don’t know very much. In other words, with each new
skills or lesson that you pick up, you are opened to a dozen new skills

Page 173 of 193

Frequently Asked Hedge Fund Questions

159

or lessons that you now realize you will have to master. Experienced
business professionals and hedge fund managers know this, so coming
off as all-knowing, or a master at anything, can often be taken as a sign
of ignorance or a low tolerance for any teaching or instruction that may
be required to complete the job well.
3. Long resumes and e-mails. This goes hand-in-hand with point 1 on not
being annoying, but it so important that I am pulling it out as a separate
point by itself. Many times when you think there are seven or eight
important reasons why someone should interview or hire you, you may
want to explain all of these in a single two- to three-page email. This
is a huge mistake; these e-mails are instantly deleted. Nobody in the
industry has time to ready 20 essays by potential candidates on why
they should be hired. Keep your e-mails down to three to five sentences
at most, and be as concise and clear as possible.
4. Generic. Do whatever you can so that you are not generic. Nobody
wants to hire someone who is just okay at many different things. You
must stand out as being especially detail-oriented, teachable, passionate,
or intelligent. Define your skill set and unique skills before the interview
so you can ensure that the potential employer remembers them after the
interview.
5. Nothing but passion. We see many professionals trying to enter the
industry with nothing but a business degree and a lot of passion and
desire. That is not enough, and you will fail if that is all you have. You
must work your way into small internships and research projects. You
must always be reading more about hedge funds and the specialized
knowledge the job you are aiming for requires.

BONUS VIDE O MODULE
To watch a video on top five hedge fund career mistakes, please type this URL into your Web browser: http://
HedgeFundTraining.com/Mistakes

Question: Do you have a system for career development or improvement
that you could share with us who are within our first five to seven years of
our career?
Answer: Yes. There is a formula that I have used over the past seven
years to help me build my resume, career, and now my own small business,

Page 174 of 193

160

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

and that is the SKAR formula. This is not a way to shortcut the hard work
it takes to be successful, but rather a map of where you should invest your
energy to increase the results you get in return.
SKAR Development Formula
Specialized Knowledge + Authority + Results
= Huge growth opportunities and faster development
within your career or business

SKAR Definitions
• Specialized knowledge means specific knowledge that is practical, functional, and very niche-specific to the area within which you work or the
skill or ability you rely on to perform well. Specialized knowledge exists
whether you are an airplane pilot, hedge fund analyst, or third-party
marketer. The difference between having specialized knowledge and
not having it could mean the difference between spending 18 months to
complete a task or project and being able to development strong client
relationships and complete the same task in just 3 months. Having
specialized knowledge lets you identify more opportunities, move more
quickly on them, and execute with efficiency. When multiplied over several years, this puts you in a different league of competition. Some ideas
on how you can further develop your specialized knowledge include:
• Read two books/month for the next two years on the area of specialized knowledge that is going to benefit your business or career
most.
• Subscribe to three of the best newsletters from blogs or experts in your
industry which are not rehashed press releases and garbage news. You
learn close to nothing from reading the news. Instead, read insights,
analyses, and white papers within these newsletters. There are at least
two to three valuable free newsletters in each industry.
• Complete a niche training and certification program specific to your
area of specialized knowledge. Having a third party verify that you
have obtained a certain level of specialized knowledge is always going
to be more credible than your own statement that “I like to read books
and e-mail newsletters, here is what I have read lately.” Seek out an
online certification program and start one within six months. This
will force you to read and learn more within your niche.
• Write one article a week on your thoughts, best practices, and lessons
learned within your niche area of practice. Write anonymously by

Page 175 of 193

Frequently Asked Hedge Fund Questions

•

161

creating a free blog at Blogger.com and start synthesizing what you
are learning and combining other ideas to create your own original
concepts (such as this blog post).
Authority means creating structures around your firm or self so that
your knowledge and abilities are communicated in a way that positions you as an authority in your niche area. Ideally, this area lines
up one-to-one with your area of specialized knowledge, and it can be
the result of gathering this knowledge. Two professionals can hold the
same knowledge, yet while one write five books and completes over
50 press interviews a year, the other may be an armchair critic with
a small group of five to seven consulting clients. The better-positioned
professional will reap rewards from new opportunities coming towards
him, instead of the other way around.
I was a competitive swimmer earlier in my life, and the best book
I read on swimming was called Total Immersion by Terry Laughlin,
and within the book he uses the phrase “swimming downhill.” It was
a way to swim so that your body is tilted forward and you literally cut
continually downwards into the water. If you get authority positioning
right, it will be like you are swimming downhill. Jeffrey Gitomer is a
great study of authority positioning. He started writing eight pages a
day when he was 46 years old; now in his fifties he has more than 10
best-selling books, and charges more than Colin Powell for speeches.
The real important detail, though, is he never cold-calls anyone and
never scrambles for new business. His phone literally rings off the hook
with new opportunities, clients, and join venture partnerships due to his
positioning. He is swimming down a steep hill.
• Publish your own newsletter or blog. Even if you only publish something once every two weeks, having it and building it over time is
what is important.
• Interview one professional each month for your own blog or newsletter, explaining that you can’t compensate them but as your web site
becomes more popular they may get some exposure, plus they can
have a copy of the recorded phone call transcript, MP3 file, or document that you type up. Interviewing experts is a shortcut to gaining
specialized knowledge and authority positioning quick. Being able to
tell others that you have interviewed 20 of the top experts in the industry and that overall you found A and B and, most surprisingly, C,
is very powerful and carries authority. Note: The more strongly you
have fulfilled your work in building specialized knowledge, the more
willing these experts will be to connect with you and the more pointed
and refined your questions will be. Ever done an interview with a
journalist who has never worked in your field? Not always fun or

Page 176 of 193

162

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

•

•

•

fulfilling to answer the basics, which can be looked up on Google in
three seconds.
Take what you have written within your own newsletter or blog and
self-publish a book with 60 to 80 pages of single-spaced text. Anyone
can do this for $15 at Lulu.com. Very simple—no more excuses that
you do not have a book deal. I got my second big investment marketing contract partially because I had a self-published book in hand
and someone gave me a chance based on my dedication to the niche.
The book positions you as an authority.
Create a one-page PDF list of all of your past clients. This can show
depth, experience, and respect that others have given you by paying
for your services and time in the past.
Speak at conferences. It is relatively easy to land speaking spots at
conference, networking events, and seminars. Lots of professionals
are looking for others with unique ideas and lessons to share. And
again, teaching what specialized knowledge you have gained helps you
connect and synthesize these ideas. If you are speaking to a crowd, you
are in an authority position, and when you mention your speaking it
adds credibility because others have stopped their business days and
invested their valuable time to listen to what you had to say.

BONUS VIDE O MODULE
To watch a video on authority construction tips, please type this URL
into your Web browser: http://HedgeFundTraining.com/Authority

•

Results. The importance of showing real, tangible results cannot be overstated. Finding ways to do this within service businesses, the fund management industry, or within certain areas of extreme confidentiality is
challenging. Some types of tangible results that can be shared include:
• An actual printed-out version of part of the service or end result of
the product or service.
• Video (preferred) or text (not as good) testimonials from past and
current clients, the more specific to the immediate need or concern of
your potential client or employer the better—and the more numerous
the testimonials, the better.
• The first 15 to 20 percent of the product or your service given away
for free on a trial basis. For example, offer a first month trial for $1,
four weeks of free work or time so you can prove your worth to the
client, and so on.

Page 177 of 193

Frequently Asked Hedge Fund Questions
•

•

163

Diverse and numerous case studies of past clients or employers. This
proves that you work with firms with various needs and have found
solutions for them, and it allows the reader of these case studies to
imagine you solving their problem.
A little tip, quick takeaway, or lesson within your sales letter or web
site which provides the potential client with immediate benefit. This
proves that you have the goods, are an authority, and do have their
best interests in mind.

Another related topic that I don’t have space to go into here is that
underlying all three of these SKAR items is having the right habits. Habits
have been shown to form 96 percent of what we do every single day. We tend
to eat the same things, walk the same way, watch the same shows, and read
the same types of books. As the quote goes, “First you form your habits, and
then your habits form you.” What business habits are you forming? What
elements of the SKAR formula are you using each week? When you read
this type of advice, are you thinking, “I already know this stuff,” or “How
good am I at that, and where could I improve?”

BONUS VIDE O MODULE
To watch a video on the SKAR formula, please type this URL into your
Web browser: http://HedgeFundTraining.com/SKAR

Question: Could you recommend three books on hedge fund careers?
Answer: Yes, to start with you could download a free e-book we offer
on hedge funds online at http://HedgeFundsCareer.com. After that I would
recommend reading Hedge Me by Claude Schwab (Lynx Media, 2006) and
then All About Hedge Funds by Robert Jaeger (McGraw-Hill, 2002). These
books combined will provide you with a good historic background of the
industry, different perspectives on trends affecting hedge fund employment,
and some tips on networking and connecting with hedge fund managers.
Question: I have been trying to get into the hedge fund industry for over
four months now with no real progress. I’m about to give up and I just don’t
know whether there is any hope for someone like me with no Ivy League
education or experience yet in the industry.
Answer: I made it into the industry and did well with neither of those
resources under my belt. You probably can, too, if you want it badly enough.
Here are some tips for building and keeping a positive attitude for when you

Page 178 of 193

164

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

are trying to overcome a challenge such as breaking into the hedge fund
industry. This is what I do for my own goals and business:
•
•

•

•

•

•

•

•
•

I work out at least three times a week.
I have several three- to four-minute motivational podcasts or audio
book clips on my iPod that I can listen to on the way to work.
I read 15 pages of attitude-changing articles or books every morning
while I am eating breakfast. (See Jeffrey Gitomer’s Little Gold Book of
YES! Attitude [FT Press, 2006].)
I have created a one-page lamented sheet with the top 50 business and
sales lessons I have learned, and I have posted it in my shower, on my
bathroom mirror, and behind my desk at work. I do my best to read
this list twice a day to remind myself of what is important.
I set BHAGS for myself—big, hairy, audacious goals, as described by Jim
Collins in Good to Great (HarperBusiness, 2001). My current BHAGS?
I want to become the expert in investment marketing and sales, run 50
investment web sites that rank in the top three slots of Google search
results, and become a best-selling author.
I try to find a lesson to be learned from each negative experience. If
nothing else, a negative experience should always tell you something
about yourself.
I am always learning and exploring something new. First it was getting into Harvard and moving to Boston; now it is learning all I can
about investment marketing and sales, the psychology of influence, and
Web marketing. As soon as you stop being curious and challenged you
become stale and unmotivated.
I cut off or drastically reduce communication with negative people.
I don’t watch the local news. It is worthless. How often do you see a
news story about a generous church donation, a child winning a science
project award, or an organ donor saving someone’s life? Not nearly as
often as a plane crash, fire, or robbery. If you have to get the local news,
read it online for five minutes and save yourself some time.

Question: What would be your advice regarding third-party marketing?
Is this trend dying out or growing? I am trying to learn more about the
space.
Answer: If you are starting a third-party marketing career you are in
good company: Dozens of highly experienced investment and hedge fund
marketing/sales professionals are entering the industry each year. In terms
of total firms offering services, the industry is growing by over 15 percent
each year. While some professionals may leave an investment manager or
hedge fund to start their own third-party marketing firm, many more first

Page 179 of 193

Frequently Asked Hedge Fund Questions

165

work or partner with an existing third-party marketing firm. The benefits of
starting or working for a third-party marketing firm are many, and doing either is relatively easy to do. If you can raise capital and consistently bring in
$100 million to $200 million/year, you can typically eliminate most types of
political and corporate risks while having the potential of earning two to four
times more than you would with the same experience while working for a
large institution such as Morgan Stanley or Goldman Sachs. As the economy
goes through this rough patch and bonuses are skimmed and 50-year old executives laid off, I see this trend of third-party marketing start-ups and career
moves increasing. To learn more, please see http://thirdpartymarketing.com.

BONUS VIDE O MODULE
To watch a video on hedge fund marketing careers, please type this
URL into your Web browser: http://HedgeFundTraining.com/Careers

Question: I am a 38-year-old insurance executive and I have always
wanted to work in the hedge fund industry. Do you believe it is too late to
make a career change?
Answer: We get at least one question like this each month from professionals who work in investment banking, insurance, or corporate finance.
The answer is no, it is not too late. It is an advantage if you have some corporate best practices training and some skill set that will help a fund manager
grow their business. Oftentimes hedge fund managers need accountants, financial modelers, capital raisers, project managers, financial analysts, and
detail-oriented investment professionals to help move their business forward.
If you can’t get an interview or position with a large hedge fund, make sure
and try meeting with local service providers and small hedge funds start-ups
or emerging hedge funds. A face-to-face meeting is worth 10 phone calls
when it comes to networking.
Question: I am about to enroll in the CHP Designation Program. What
does the program include? What is the process that I will go through?
Answer: The CHP Designation is an online self-study training and certification course on hedge funds. Once you join the program you will be
sent a welcome letter thanking you for registering and providing you with
bullet-point steps on how you can attend our networking events, gain access to our educational video content (over 100 videos and tools), receive
our career coaching, acquire the required readings, access the mock exam,

Page 180 of 193

166

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

schedule your exam, and take advantage of CHP membership benefits. You
then study using the video content, CHP study guide, and required readings, using our team as support when you have questions or get stuck
on certain specific subjects. Your exam is conducted 100 percent online
from wherever you are based. Over 40 percent of our participants complete the CHP Designation from outside of the United States. Learn more at
http://HedgeFundCertification.com.
Question: What are your top tips for those who would like to start a
career in the hedge fund industry? Anything else unique to what you have
already mentioned?
Answer: Yes, here are some additional tips:
•

•

•

Be absolutely sure you actually want to work in the hedge fund industry.
As Yoda said, do or do not, there is no “try.” If you try you will fail,
because this industry is very competitive and it takes dedication and
hard work to do well in the hedge fund industry.
Become a student of the hedge fund industry. Study the industry every
day by reading magazines, e-mail newsletters, books, and white papers.
You need to speak the language of the industry.
Use the three-circles strategy from Jim Collins. Collins suggests to move
forward only with decisions that are a good fit with your background,
involve something you are passionate about, and have the potential of
being highly profitable. I use this strategy in my own life and you should,
too, as you look at opportunities in this field.

Question: I am attending your Hedge Fund Premium seminar networking event next month in New York. I have never been to a networking event
before and I wanted to see if you had a few quick tips on networking for
me. Anything you can share?
Answer: If you’re looking to enter the hedge fund industry either working directly for a firm or as a service provider to one, networking events and
conferences are a great way to get your foot in the door.
Many professionals fail to take advantage of these opportunities, even
those who attend. Here are five tips that should prepare you for attending a
networking event or conference:
1. Don’t be shy. Attending a hedge fund event is a good start, but you do
not gain anything if you do not talk to other attendees, speakers, and
sponsors. The event is only valuable if you make it valuable, so network
and socialize with those around you.
2. Don’t scare people off . Another mistake is to be too forward when
approaching managers or service providers, especially if you are looking

Page 181 of 193

Frequently Asked Hedge Fund Questions

167

to land a job in the hedge fund industry. Instead of sharing insights and
thoughts on the industry, many young professionals will focus entirely
on their own needs (a job) and ignore those managers or executives
who are not currently hiring. This is the wrong mentality. Assuming
you have been following the industry and paid good attention to the
speaker, you will have a good starting point for initiating a conversation.
Ask questions when appropriate and listen when the other person is
speaking. If you are looking for a job, don’t start a conversation by
voicing that problem. Those who work in the industry are not paying
to hear someone complain about not working in private equity. But you
should mention it when the timing is appropriate.
3. Get your name out there. If you cannot find a hiring firm or no firms
are interested in your product or service, don’t despair—get your name
out there. It may just be an inconvenient moment or the person you are
talking with is not the right person at the firm. For example, if you are
marketing your auditing service to a principal in charge of evaluating
deals, he may not be interested. Give him your business card regardless;
in another quarter the firm may be looking for a new auditor and still
have your card. Even if you do not directly land a client through this
method, it boosts your firm’s or your own name recognition. If you’re
looking for a job (from analyst to executive), give your card out. Then
when the firm is eventually hiring they will probably have your name
on file.
4. Prepare an elevator pitch. It may not sound great, but you are a product
that needs to be sold. Therefore you need to have a great elevator
pitch that comes out effortlessly. Whether you are looking to network,
marketing to investors, or job seeking, a solid elevator pitch is necessary.
Be concise and include only essential information.
5. Look and act like a professional. Even though you are not at work
when you’re attending an event or conference, act like you are. You are
meeting potential clients and partners, so you essentially are working.
Wear a suit. If it’s hot, as many crowded events are, at least make the
initial effort and take off your coat once you sit down. Look your best
(haircut, shave, and a suit) or no one will take you seriously. It’s better to
be overdressed than underdressed. Remember your manners, especially
if it is a catered event, and use language that you would be comfortable
using in the office.
Question: I am looking to work in the third-party marketing space. Do
you have any career advice or book recommendations for those who want
to work in third-party marketing? Do you have advice for getting a job in
this niche industry?

Page 182 of 193

168

THE HEDGE FUND BOOK

Answer: There are no great books on third-party marketing that I am aware of.
Everyone is pretty close-to-the-vest in the industry. I haven’t found a great book on
investment sales, either, but I know there are a few of those if you look around on Amazon.
If you are looking for great books just on sales, I really like Jeffrey Gitomer’s three books:
The Sales Bible (HarperBusiness, 2008), Little Red Book of Sales Answers (FT Press,
2006), and Little Gold Book of Yes! Attitude (FT Press 2006). Those books have changed
my career.
Hedge fund marketing and sales fee structures vary depending on the type,
reputation, and abilities of the third-party marketing (3PM) firm. Some retain only two to
three clients at a time and charge retainers for this focus of their attention, while others
might work with 10 money managers (clients) at once and only get paid on commission.
Usually commissions are 20 percent of both the base fee and performance fee when
working with hedge funds.
If you work for a hedge fund, you will be restricted to their strategies, so if their
performance dips or the strategy goes out of favor you might not raise any money and it
wouldn’t be your fault. If you work for a 3PM firm, you would probably get to market
two to three different money managers in some capacity across diverse distribution
channels such as endowments and foundations, broker-dealers, and directly to high net
worth individuals. If a strategy goes out of favor, you just find a new money manager to
market as a firm, and you avoid the downside of being a hedge fund sales professional.
Common compensation for internal hedge fund salespeople is $80,000 to
$200,000 with some making $400,000 to $800,000 per year and maybe 3 to 10
commissions that might trail off over time. Common compensation for a 3PM, as I
mentioned earlier, is a retainer of $60,000 to $150,000 (if they get one) plus 20 percent
of fees.
I’m not even 40 years old yet, and I went the third-party marketing route because I
want to be able to have knowledge of the DNA and powerful relationships in every
major distribution channel, and I want figure out where the real money and
momentum are and be able to shift my focus to that point. I believe it is harder to get a
3PM job because most want you to have a book of business or solid relationships, but it
can be done. In my first third-party marketing position I worked for free for three
weeks to prove myself, and I took a big cut in pay coming in the door, but it was worth
it to learn so much in so little time. Invest in yourself for the long term, never take
ethical shortcuts in this industry, and you will do well.

Page 183 of 193

The previous section was an excerpt from The Hedge Fund Book: A Training Manual
for Professionals and Capital Raising Executives (Wiley 2010) ISBN#: 0470520639
This book can be purchased from major book retail stores or online at:
http://www.amazon.com/Hedge-Fund-Book-Professionals-CapitalRaising/dp/0470520639/

Page 184 of 193

PART III: THE FAMILY OFFICE BOOK
The following is an excerpt from The Family Office Book: Investing Capital for the UltraAffluent (ISBN# 1118185366). It can be purchased at major bookstores or on
Amazon.com: http://www.amazon.com/The-Family-Office-Book-UltraAffluent/dp/1118185366/

Page 185 of 193

Family Office Fundamentals

CHAPTER

6

The Family Office Industry
We often tell our ultra-wealthy clients that they have been in the get-rich business and we are in the stayrich business.
- Paul Tramontano (CEO of Constellation Wealth Advisors, a top 50 multi-family office who we
recently interviewed)

Chapter Preview: The family office industry can be challenging to learn about. This chapter will provide you
with a high-level, 10,000- foot view of the family office industry. It will cover the basics of how the industry
operates and serve as a foundation upon which the rest of the book will build upon.
The family office industry is secretive. While speaking at the Latin American Family Office Summit
recently, I was reminded by Thomas Handler (interviewed later in this book) of an adage I hear used often in
the industry: “A submerged whale does not get harpooned.” This quote sums up why so many family offices
are so secretive and difficult to learn more about. Many family offices and ultra-high net worth individuals
see that media attention and press often attracts sales professionals, possibly compliance headaches, and
others looking only to harvest ideas or competitive angles on the family’s operating business.

The goal of this book and chapter is to show you exactly how family offices operate, provide their services,
and invest their capital.

WHAT IS A FAMILY OFFICE?
See the video “What Is a Family Office?” at
www.FamilyOfficesGroup.com/Video3.

Page 186 of 193

4

THE FAMILY OFFICE BOOK

A family office is a 360-degree financial management firm and personal chief financial officer for the ultraaffluent, often providing investment, charitable giving, budgeting, insurance, taxation, and multigenerational
guidance to an individual or family. The most direct way of understanding the purpose of a family office is
to think of a very robust and comprehensive wealth management solution that looks at every financial aspect
of an ultra- wealthy person’s or family’s life.
Single Family Office Definition: A single family office is a full-balance- sheet 360-degree ultra-affluent
wealth management and CFO solution for a single individual or family.
The Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) recently defined single family offices as “entities
established by wealthy families to manage their wealth, plan for their families’ financial future, and provide
other services to family members. Single family offices generally serve families with at least $100 million
or more of investable assets. Industry observers have estimated that there are 2,500 to 3,000 single family
offices managing more than $1.2 trillion in assets.”
John Gryzmala, a single family office executive we recently interviewed, states: “The definition of the
single family office for me is: an entity or an individual that helps relieve the family members of certain, if
not all, mundane tasks that they would prefer not dealing with, be it investments, be it household staff, be it
insurance, be it handling legal issues, trusts and estates issues, and tax planning. That’s it. So however you
want to structure it to handle and help you, the family member, with those issues is my definition of the
single family office.”
Multi-Family Office Definition: A multi-family office is a full-balance-sheet, 360-degree ultra-affluent
wealth management and CFO solution for multiple individuals and families.
Multi-family offices can serve anywhere from two clients to 500-plus ultra-wealthy individuals and
families. In both the single family and multi- family office, what is really being offered is a full balance
sheet financial management solution to ultra-high net worth individuals. The implementation of the family
office model is diverse. In both single and multi-family offices, a very narrow set of services could be offered
so that one family office has just one or two functions, while others can provide a fully comprehensive
solution. Every family’s model is unique as a result of its budget, needs, and wants also being unique.
It is important to note that many hybrid models are very much closed- door single family offices, yet
they serve just two to three families and never accept outside money. This is an exception to the rule, but
important to fully understanding how the industry operates.

Page 187 of 193

The Family Office Industry

5

Traditional wealth management firms advise on your investments and sometimes help you make
insurance-related or budget-related decisions. Most wealth management firms are not specialists in
taxation, charitable giving, or even in multigenerational wealth management. Family offices can provide those
solutions and more with a single team, allowing several diverse experts to speak with one another in order
to create a cohesive plan for preserving and/or growing the wealth of the ultra-high net worth client.
There is a constant debate over the definition of a “true” family office. Some professionals believe single
family offices are the only authentic family offices, and multi-family offices are simply wealth management
firms in disguise. Others believe that you must have $250 million to launch a single family office, though
there are many successful single family offices with as little as $50 million. I believe that a family office is
defined by how it operates and what solution it provides to the family, not by its asset size. A hedge fund
is a hedge fund and a venture capital firm is a venture capital firm, based on the structure of their
investments, fees, and purpose, not by their asset size; the same goes for family offices.
This will be covered in more detail later in this book, but it is important to note that some multi-family
offices start out as single family offices and gradually add more clients. The recent rising costs of talent and
compliance has driven up interest in converting single family offices into multi-family offices.

THE FAMILY OFFICE UNIVERSE
It is helpful to look at the family office industry and think about how closely aligned different parties are to the
central needs of ultra-wealthy clients. The diagram in Figure 1.1 depicts how closely aligned the goals of
various parties are to the needs and goals of ultra-wealthy clients.
You can see that there is a symmetrical ring around the ultra-wealthy. That first ring represents single
family offices that focus solely on the needs of an ultra-wealthy individual or single family.
The second ring represents multi-family offices that are almost completely aligned with the ultrawealthy client; at the same time they need to please several or even hundreds of other ultra-wealthy clients as
well, so they are not 100 percent aligned with the goals of a single ultra-wealthy client, but close.
The third and fourth rings represent service providers and regulators. The service provider grouping
includes consultants, placement agents, traditional wealth management firms, and general accountants or tax
attorneys.

Page 188 of 193

6

THE FAMILY OFFICE BOOK

F I G U R E 1.1 The Family Office Universe
While a tax attorney is surely more focused on ultra-wealthy client needs than is a regulator (as depicted
later in this chapter), all of these groups are, for the most part, not focused on and built around the needs of
ultra-wealthy clients or family offices.
The stars within the Family Office Universe diagram represent the tens of thousands of fund
and investment professionals who are constantly trying to seek capital from family offices.
sometimes connected to multi-family offices or service providers, or they are disconnected
industry to the extent that they don’t really understand what a family office is or how most of
wealthy are having their capital managed.

managers
They are
from the
the ultra-

THE HIST ORY OF FAMILY OFFICE S
Single family offices have existed in different forms for thousands of years. In the article “Family Offices in
Europe and the United States” by Dr. Steen Ehlern, the managing director of the Ferguson Partners Family
Office, noted that the merchants of ancient Japan and the Shang dynasty in China (1600 b.c.) both used
multigenerational wealth management strategies.
There are also several accounts of “trusts” being set up for the first time during the Crusades (a.d. 1100).
Later, many wealthy banking families of Europe, including the Medicis Bardis and Rothschilds, were said
to have used a family office–like structure. These organizations often offered their services to other
wealthy families, and in the late 1800s and 1900s they started to look more like modern day multi-family
office operations. These operations grew out of single family offices that were asked to serve connected
business families and out of private banks and early trust company establishments that were looking to serve
more affluent clientele.

Page 189 of 193

The Family Office Industry

7

Even now the family office industry is relatively obscure and not very well understood. While everyone
in the financial industry has a rough idea of what a hedge fund is (or at least knows that they exist), many
finance professionals don’t know what a family office is or what it does. When it comes to the general
public, knowledge of a family office or its operations is close to nonexistent.
Looking at the growth of the hedge fund industry, I believe the model really started to take off between
1970 and 2000. The family office industry is on a parallel growth track, and our market research and
interviews have uncovered that we are just 10 years into a 30-year surge of growth in the family office
space. For example, I recently spoke on stage at an event with a wealth management professional who has 17
years of experience; while he was very successful and bright and did know what a hedge fund was, he did
not know what a family office was. If someone who works in wealth management is not aware of the
family office industry, many of the ultra- wealthy are not either. There are more than 10,000 family
offices in the industry; I predict that the industry will double in size by 2020.
The wealthy will continue to expand their wealth, and family offices will continue to grow in numbers.
That growth is accompanied by an increasing need and desire among the wealthy for wealth management
services. Around the globe, more and more wealthy families are looking for something similar to the family
offices seen in the United States and Western Europe.
I was fortunate to recently record an interview with one of the founding fathers of the modern-day family
office industry, Charles Grace. Charles is a director at the Threshold Group. He is known for founding
Ashbridge In- vestment Management and for building the first open-architecture platform for family office
investment management. Charles not only knows the history of the family office industry but also has helped
shape it as well. Here is a short excerpt from that interview:
Richard Wilson: Charles, you have been in the family office industry for over 50 years, which is longer
than anybody else we are interviewing for this book and our monthly newsletter. So how
have you seen the industry evolve?
Charles Grace: It used to be that family offices were based in the financial office of the operating
company. There was perhaps a dedicated accountant in there that took care of the operating
company. So that was the beginning, and then some of the wealthier families set up distinct
offices that were not necessarily housed in the operating company, but which were a part
of it, and they provided services to the family. Not too long ago, maybe, say, I don’t know,
20 years ago, some of these larger family offices started to provide ser- vices to other
families and the founding family. And a couple of names that come to mind are us, the
Rockefellers, and there were a couple of others that built a multi-family office business on a
family office, and so that was the first level of development.
Next came the trust companies. The trust companies were always in this business too,
not as family offices, but as a part of the trust work—trust and investment work— and they
were always there as competitors in this business and still are. Then along came the brokers;
while the brokers were very transaction-oriented in the early days, they found out that they
wanted to provide more advice than transactions because transactions were very cyclical.
They became involved in the family office’s business and they started selling the family
office business model. They pro- vide other services, too, primarily outsourced I think, but
some of them are housed in-house. I mean I think Gold- man Sachs and some of those guys
provide other services to their wealthy clients rather than just a dozen products. So that is a
third level of development.
Now then out of that came people that spun out of the investment banks, the trust
companies, and the family offices and started their own multi-family offices. So you can see
there is sort of a tree growing here and you see that the branches have now gone out to sort
of third, fourth generation, where you have people spinning out of the family offices, the
brokerage houses, the banks in order to start multi-family offices.
Page 190 of 193

8

THE FAMILY OFFICE BOOK

Richard Wilson: I think that’s a great, brief overview of how the industry has evolved. It was back in the
early 1980s that your firm was one of the pioneering family offices that came up with an
open-architecture investing platform. Can you talk about that in a little bit more detail
since you became well known for offering that early on in the family office space?

Charles Grace: Well that’s another revolution, Richard. We started out by—this was in the old days 25
years ago whereby hedge funds were less developed than they are now. Private equity
was there, but less developed. So the investment question was sort of a simple one: a set of
asset allocation and manager selection. It was based upon rather simple strategies, I mean
various types of stocks—big and small stocks, international stocks—weren’t regularly
considered until later on in the industry’s development. Hedge funds came along, I don’t
know, not at the very beginning. The investment program developed from, it used to be
an asset allocation model, just an efficient frontier which was by definition backward
looking.
See the video “History of Family Offices,” at
www.FamilyOfficesGroup.com/Video4.
Then it grew into an emphasis on manager selection and identifying “the best
managers,” who generally reverted to the mean, but nonetheless were very good, and
so there was lot of work done on the organization and the people themselves,
investment managers. Then, [it grew] to a form of a tactical asset allocation rather
than just strategic. Strategic asset allocation, manager se- lection, and now it’s moved into
much more emphasis on tactical asset allocation across a very, very broad spectrum of
investment strategies. So there has been a lot of change in the way investment advice has
been offered and utilized by the family offices.
Stay tuned for more of our interview with Charles Grace in Part Two of this book.

Page 191 of 193

9

The Family Office Industry

STATE O F TH E FAMILY OF FICE INDUSTRY
See the video “State of the Family Office Industry,” at www.FamilyOfficesGroup.com/Video5.
The family office wealth management industry is larger and faster- growing than ever before.
Family offices are thriving. Ultra-high net worth families shape our economy and communities; that can be
seen all around us through their operation of franchises, apartment buildings, operating businesses, and
capital infusions. Family offices are an important source of capital for small and medium-sized businesses and
investments, which fuel much of the global economy.
Family offices are often global in their presence and investing. To date, I have spoken in more than 20
countries around the world, and every region shows evidence of a thriving industry that is only just beginning
to become more widely understood and defined. Throughout this book, you will have the chance to learn
more about these industry hot spots, recent trends, operations, investments, and the future of both single and
multi-family offices.

WHO U S E S A S I N G L E O R M U L T I -FAMILY O F F I C E ?
While some family office clients inherit their wealth and others earn their wealth as an athlete or movie star,
a high percentage of family office clients have recently taken a company public or sold a business. As a
result, their net worth is now $20 million, $300 million, or more, assets they did not have to manage in the
past. Family offices try to help manage and preserve that wealth, and the goal of this book is to explore how
they attempt to do that on a consistent basis.
Examples of well-known individuals who use family offices are Michael Jordan, Paul Allen, Oprah
Winfrey, Bill Gates, and Donald Trump. Almost everyone who runs a single family office has between
$100 million and $1 billion in assets, with a smaller percentage having over $1 billion and an even smaller
percentage having under $100 million under management.
Most multi-family offices require $20 million to $30 million in investable assets to join their
platform, but due to economic conditions and hunger for business growth, some family offices are
allowing $5 million and $10 million clients in the door. At the other end of the spectrum, some high-end
family offices, including several we interviewed for this book, re- quire $100 million to $250 million in
investable assets to participate in their multi-family office. For the purposes of this book, we will be
referring to ultra-affluent clients as individuals or families with more than $20 million in investable assets.
See the video “Ultra-Affluent Clients,” at
www.FamilyOfficesGroup.com/Video6.
While we don’t have room in this book to detail the line item costs or requirements of running a family
office, I want to dispel one myth: Many industry studies will tell you that you need $100 million to $250
million or more to set up your own single family office solution. Experts will tell you that running a family
office will cost at least $1 million a year. I don’t believe that is true. Due to technology and the ability to
leverage taxation and risk management experts and consultants, I have found some successful single family
offices with “only” $30 million to $50 million in assets.
I asked one successful single family office executive, Louis Hanna of Corigin Holdings, when it makes
sense to consider forming a single family office instead of working with a multi-family office. “I think it’s
kind of on a case-by-case basis, but arguably and it’s a large subset, but I would say be- ginning at 50
approaching 100 million, again depending upon the situation. And also obviously it is not based upon just
asset level but also investment management experience, level of financial sophistication, and goals of family
members.” The amount of assets needed to set up a single family office depends on the type of risk the
family has to manage, what they invest in, what global taxation issues they face, and what goals they have for
the family and family office, but, as Louis notes, other factors besides assets should be considered before
forming a single family office.
Page 192 of 193

10

THE FAMILY OFFICE BOOK

I had the opportunity to interview Angelo Robles, head of the Family Office Association, an exclusive
association for single family offices. You can hear exactly how he responded to my question on this topic
during the recorded audio interview.
Richard Wilson: How much in assets do you think that someone needs to have before it makes sense to form
a single family office?
Angelo Robles: I often think those numbers are thrown about, and some- times I am guilty of that as well.
So, why not $67.2 mil- lion, how come $50 million or a $100 million? My views on this
issue have also changed in the three years since I launched FOA. A part of the reason for
my change was about a year ago, I had a chance to come across a significant wealth owner
who noted to me, “You know, Angelo, I’m liquid in the ballpark of about $45 million.”
And I said, “$45 million, I mean congratulations, you are successful. But I think you
may be a little bit small for creating your own entity, your single family office. And it’s
expensive relative to your assets.”
And he leans forward and says, “Let’s get a couple of things straight, Angelo. First of
all, don’t tell me what’s expensive. If I have, whatever, $45 million, and I want to create
for a couple of thousand dollars a private operating company and hire someone who may
be paid a couple of hundred thousand dollars, I have got $45 million. I think I have the
resources to do that. And by doing that, I am taking control of my assets and my money.
I have talent; it may be one person, but talent that’s going to be exclusive for me. Why do
I have to have a billion dollars? Isn’t that a little different than a traditional definition but
still a definition of a single family office?” And that really caused me to rethink.
Now, I think, to be optimized to have a multiple of talent inside the single family
office, sure, it’s going to be superior to have $200 million, if not even more. But I have
come around to the gentleman’s point of view that there really is no clear-cut definition on
how much assets someone has to have to find it worthwhile because a lot of people that
want to create an single family office, they are entrepreneurial in nature; they are type A
personalities; they are successful on some level; and they believe in the opportunity for
control, customization, and privacy. And if they are able to build the governance and the
philosophy around that and hire even one person to help them in their initiative, doesn’t
that qualify to be a single family office? Just because they are not worth $300 mil- lion,
$400 million, or $500 million yet, doesn’t mean that they don’t have the opportunity to
build something that we would broadly still describe as a single family office.
There is probably a sweet spot or a medium, $500 million to $1 billion, and we
have some families that are Forbes 100, a couple of Forbes 10. Those families have tens
of billions of dollars. But we also have some that are “only”—and again I use that word
loosely—$50 mil- lion or $100 million or $150 million. So I think the opportunity here is
to not define a single family office by too restrictive of a definition. If someone sees
value in the benefit of control, privacy, and customization, then I don’t think we could
contain their desire to create one or maintain one just because we perceive they don’t have
the classic $100 million in assets.
To download the full 40-minute audio interview with Angelo Robles, please visit
www.FamilyOfficesGroup.com/audio1.

WHY FAMILY OFFICES?
There are many reasons why the ultra-high-net-worth are forming and joining family offices faster than ever
before. We will explore the four drivers of growth in the industry within Chapter 10, “The Future of the
Family Office Industry,” because you may be wondering, “What are the core motivations of these ultra-wealthy
individuals looking to start or join a family office?”

Page 193 of 193

The Family Office Industry

11

Once you begin dealing with $10 million, $100 million, or $500 million or more in assets, many issues that may
sound small become very important to manage closely. These issues include global taxation, risk management,
and even things like cash management. A section of this book in Chapter 6 will focus exclusively on cash
management best practices; well-managed cash can often pay for most (if not all) of the expenses of using a
family office.

MORE M O N E Y , M O R E P R O B L E M S
It really is true: The more money you have, the more problems and challenges you face, no matter how “high
quality” the problem may be seen by some. A good analogy for understanding how small details become
more important as wealth grows is the managing of currency risk exposure for Procter & Gamble versus
managing that same risk within a $1 million-a-year small business with global clients. Surely the small
business does not have a full- time currency risk expert on its team, while Procter & Gamble most likely
employs several full-time professionals who do nothing but hedge global currency risks. The same goes for
the importance of tax matters for someone with $80 million to invest versus $800,000.
Here is a list of the top benefits of working with a family office instead of a single CPA or traditional
wealth management professional:
•
•

•

•

Central financial management center for the wealth so more holistic decision making can be made.
Higher chance of an efficient and successful transfer of family assets, heritage, values, and
relationships.
Access to institutional quality talent, fund managers, and resources that would be difficult or impossible
to obtain as an individual.
Reduced costs in achieving a full balance sheet financial management and investment solution.
See the video “More Money, More Problems,” at
www.FamilyOfficesGroup.com/Video7.

FAMILY OFFICE INDUSTRY CONFERENCES
Around the world, there is a growing awareness and interest in family office wealth management. Fund
managers want to raise capital from family offices, wealth management firms want to convert into family
offices, and ultra-wealthy individuals want to learn more about the industry before starting their own single
family office or joining a family office. One way to reach family offices is to attend a conference. Like other
types of conferences, some are more valuable than others. Some family office conferences are invitation only,
some are free to attend if you operate a family office, and most of them are held annually.
These conferences are most useful for family offices that are looking to connect with fund managers, service
providers, and fellow family offices to explore partnerships and trends. While it may add to your credibility
in the industry to speak at such an event, you will most likely not directly get any new clients for your family
office business by attending such a conference. I attend family office conferences every quarter and I’ve
spoken at more than 50 conferences now. Please do come up and introduce yourself if you see me at one of
these events; it would be great to meet you in person. You can see our upcoming family office conferences
at WilsonConferences.com

CONCLUSION
Family offices have been around for a long time in different forms, but for only a very short amount of
time in their current state. The industry is quickly evolving and provides a critical solution to the ultraaffluent who are willing to pay for more holistic management of their finances. In the following chapter,
we will expand on the actual services that many family offices are providing.
Page 194 of 193

The previous section was an excerpt from The Family Office Book: Investing Capital for the
Ultra-Affluent (ISBN# 1118185366). It can be purchased at major bookstores or on
Amazon.com:
http://www.amazon.com/The-Family-Office-Book-Ultra-Affluent/dp/1118185366/
ABOUT THE AUTHOR:

Richard Wilson, CEO & Founder: is the founder and CEO of
the Family Offices Group and Billionaire Family Office. He is a
prominent figure within the alternative investment industry,
working daily with fund managers and family offices. Mr. Wilson
also founded the Hedge Fund Group, a professional networking
association with more than 100,000 members. He lectures
frequently at hedge fund conferences and hosts several annual
networking events through the Hedge Fund Group and the Family
Offices Group.
The Certified Hedge Fund Professional (CHP)
designation is a 100% online-based hedge fund training and
certification program. The CHP program is the industry
standard, #1 most popular and trusted certification program
built exclusively by and for hedge fund professionals. It is a
continuing education and professional self-improvement
program. You can read more about the CHP program at
http://HedgeFundCertification.com.
The Hedge Fund Group (HFG) is a network of more than
100,000 hedge fund industry professionals from over 80
countries who actively network, partner, and refer resources and
leads to each other. Each year, the Hedge Fund Group offers
several full-day capital raising and hedge fund marketing
workshops. Many investors, including hedge funds, know us for
our capital raising resources, including the Family Offices
Database. You can join the Hedge Fund Group for free at
http://HedgeFundGroup.org.
Wilson Conferences is a seven-year-old event business
which hosts dozens of investment conferences around the world
every year. You can reserve your seat for our upcoming Capital
Raising Workshops, Networking Breakfasts, and Investor
Conferences by visiting WilsonConferences.com
Investor Contacts: Are you trying to raise capital for your
hedge fund? We provide full contact details on more than 3,000
different potential investors. They include
wealth management firms, single and multi-family offices,
institutional investment consultants, and fund of hedge funds.
All of our directories of investor contact details are guaranteed to
be updated and accurate. You can learn more about our
available packages at http://FamilyOffices.com.

Page 195 of 193

